

Linux
          manual pages
Section 8
 

 
 

Name
intro — Introduction to administration and
      privileged commands

 
DESCRIPTION
Section 8 of the manual describes commands which either
      can be or are only used by the superuser, like
      system-administration commands, daemons, and hardware-related
      commands.
As with the commands in described section 1, the commands
      described in this section terminate with an exit status that
      indicates whether the command succeeded or failed. See
      intro(1) for more
      information.

 
NOTES

 
Authors and Copyright Conditions
Look at the header of the manual page source for the
        author(s) and copyright conditions. Note that these can be
        different from page to page!

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michaeldocument.write('@');(@)moria.de),

                          Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993

                  and Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 17:35:48 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  2007-10-23 mtk: minor rewrites, and added paragraph on exit status

