

Linux
          manual pages
Section 8
 

 
 

Name
sync — synchronize data on disk with memory

Synopsis

sync [−−help] [−−version]

 
DESCRIPTION
sync writes
      any data buffered in memory out to disk. This can include
      (but is not limited to) modified superblocks, modified
      inodes, and delayed reads and writes. This must be
      implemented by the kernel; The sync program does nothing
      but exercise the sync(2) system call.
The kernel keeps data in memory to avoid doing (relatively
      slow) disk reads and writes. This improves performance, but
      if the computer crashes, data may be lost or the file system
      corrupted as a result. sync ensures that
      everything in memory is written to disk.
sync should
      be called before the processor is halted in an unusual manner
      (e.g., before causing a kernel panic when debugging new
      kernel code). In general, the processor should be halted
      using the shutdown(8) or reboot(8) or halt(8) commands, which
      will attempt to put the system in a quiescent state before
      calling sync(2). (Various
      implementations of these commands exist; consult your
      documentation; on some systems one should not call reboot(8) and halt(8) directly.)

 
OPTIONS

−−help

Print a usage message on standard output and exit
            successfully.

−−version

Print version information on standard output, then
            exit successfully.

−−

Terminate option list.

 
ENVIRONMENT
The variables LANG,
      LC_ALL, LC_CTYPE, and LC_MESSAGES have the usual meaning.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.2.

 
NOTES
On Linux, sync is only guaranteed to
      schedule the dirty blocks for writing; it can actually take a
      short time before all the blocks are finally written. The
      reboot(8) and halt(8) commands take this
      into account by sleeping for a few seconds after calling
      sync(2).
This page describes sync as found in the
      fileutils-4.0 package; other versions may differ
      slightly.

 
SEE ALSO
sync(2), halt(8), reboot(8), update(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Reboot/halt and Linux information extracted from Rick Faith's original

                  sync(8) manpage, dating back to the Linux 0.99 days.  The Linux-specific

                  information is attributed to Linus Torvalds

                  Copyright 1992, 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  May be distributed under the GNU General Public License

