

Linux
          manual pages
Section 7
 

 
 

Name
libc — Overview of standard C libraries on Linux

 
DESCRIPTION
The term "libc" is commonly used as a shorthand for the
      "standard C library", a library of standard functions that
      can be used by all C programs (and sometimes by programs in
      other languages). Because of some history (see below), use of
      the term "libc" to refer to the standard C library is
      somewhat ambiguous on Linux.

 
glibc
By far the most widely used C library on Linux is the
        GNU C Library (http://www.gnu.org/software/libc/), often
        referred to as glibc. This is the C
        library that is nowadays used in all major Linux
        distributions. It is also the C library whose details are
        documented in the relevant pages of the man-pages project
        (primarily in Section 3 of the manual). Documentation of
        glibc is also available in the glibc manual, available via
        the command info
        libc. Release 1.0 of glibc was made in
        September 1992. (There were earlier 0.x releases.) The next
        major release of glibc was 2.0, at the beginning of
        1997.
The pathname /lib/libc.so.6 (or something similar) is
        normally a symbolic link that points to the location of the
        glibc library, and executing this pathname will cause glibc
        to display various information about the version installed
        on your system.

 
Linux libc
In the early to mid 1990s, there was for a while
        Linux libc, a fork
        of glibc 1.x created by Linux developers who felt that
        glibc development at the time was not sufficing for the
        needs of Linux. Often, this library was referred to
        (ambiguously) as just "libc". Linux libc released major
        versions 2, 3, 4, and 5 (as well as many minor versions of
        those releases). For a while, Linux libc was the standard C
        library in many Linux distributions. However,
        notwithstanding the original motivations of the Linux libc
        effort, by the time glibc 2.0 was released, it was clearly
        superior to Linux libc, and all major Linux distributions
        that had been using Linux libc soon switched back to glibc.
        (Since this switch occurred over a decade ago, man-pages no longer takes
        care to document Linux libc details. Nevertheless, the
        history is visible in vestiges of information about Linux
        libc that remain in some manual pages, in particular,
        references to libc4 and libc5.)

 
Other C libraries
There are various other less widely used C libraries for
        Linux. These libraries are generally smaller than glibc,
        both in terms of features and memory footprint, and often
        intended for building small binaries, perhaps targeted at
        development for embedded Linux systems. Among such
        libraries are uClibc (http://www.uclibc.org/) and dietlibc (http://www.fefe.de/dietlibc/). Details of these
        libraries are generally not covered by the man-pages project.

 
SEE ALSO
syscalls(2), feature_test_macros(7),
      man-pages(7), standards(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 2009 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk

                      <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

