

Linux
          manual pages
Section 7
 

 
 

Name
termio — System V terminal driver interface

 
DESCRIPTION
termio is the
      name of the old System V terminal driver interface. This
      interface defined a termio structure used to
      store terminal settings, and a range of ioctl(2) operations to get
      and set terminal attributes.
The termio
      interface is now obsolete: POSIX.1-1990 standardized a
      modified version of this interface, under the name termios. The POSIX.1 data
      structure differs slightly from the System V version, and
      POSIX.1 defined a suite of functions to replace the various
      ioctl(2) operations that
      existed in System V. (This was done because ioctl(2) was
      unstandardized, and its variadic third argument does not
      allow argument type checking.)
If you're looking for page called "termio", then you can
      probably find most of the information that you seek in either
      termios(3) or tty_ioctl(4).

 
SEE ALSO
termios(3), tty_ioctl(4)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 2006 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  28 Dec 2006 - Initial Creation

