

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
alarm — set an alarm clock for delivery of a
      signal

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

unsigned int
            alarm(
unsigned int seconds);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
alarm() arranges for a
      SIGALRM signal to be delivered
      to the calling process in seconds seconds.
If seconds is
      zero, no new alarm() is
      scheduled.
In any event any previously set alarm() is canceled.

 
RETURN VALUE
alarm() returns the number
      of seconds remaining until any previously scheduled alarm was
      due to be delivered, or zero if there was no previously
      scheduled alarm.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD.

 
NOTES
alarm() and setitimer(2) share the same
      timer; calls to one will interfere with use of the other.
sleep(3) may be implemented
      using SIGALRM; mixing calls to
      alarm() and sleep(3) is a bad idea.
Scheduling delays can, as ever, cause the execution of the
      process to be delayed by an arbitrary amount of time.

 
SEE ALSO
gettimeofday(2), pause(2), select(2), setitimer(2), sigaction(2), signal(2), sleep(3), time(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;

                                                1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified Wed Jul 21 19:42:57 1993 by Rik Faith <faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu>

                  Modified Sun Jul 21 21:25:26 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl>

                  Modified Wed Nov  6 03:46:05 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

