

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
close — close a file descriptor

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

int
            close(
int fd);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
close() closes a file
      descriptor, so that it no longer refers to any file and may
      be reused. Any record locks (see fcntl(2)) held on the file
      it was associated with, and owned by the process, are removed
      (regardless of the file descriptor that was used to obtain
      the lock).
If fd is the last
      file descriptor referring to the underlying open file
      description (see open(2)), the resources
      associated with the open file description are freed; if the
      descriptor was the last reference to a file which has been
      removed using unlink(2) the file is
      deleted.

 
RETURN VALUE
close() returns zero on
      success. On error, −1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EBADF

fd isn't a
            valid open file descriptor.

EINTR

The close() call was
            interrupted by a signal; see signal(7).

EIO

An I/O error occurred.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
Not checking the return value of close() is a common but nevertheless
      serious programming error. It is quite possible that errors
      on a previous write(2) operation are
      first reported at the final close(). Not checking the return value when
      closing the file may lead to silent loss of data. This can
      especially be observed with NFS and with disk quota.
A successful close does not guarantee that the data has
      been successfully saved to disk, as the kernel defers writes.
      It is not common for a file system to flush the buffers when
      the stream is closed. If you need to be sure that the data is
      physically stored use fsync(2). (It will depend
      on the disk hardware at this point.)
It is probably unwise to close file descriptors while they
      may be in use by system calls in other threads in the same
      process. Since a file descriptor may be reused, there are
      some obscure race conditions that may cause unintended side
      effects.

 
SEE ALSO
fcntl(2), fsync(2), open(2), shutdown(2), unlink(2), fclose(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;

                                                1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified Wed Jul 21 22:40:25 1993 by Rik Faith <faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu>

                  Modified Sat Feb 18 15:27:48 1995 by Michael Haardt

                  Modified Sun Apr 14 11:40:50 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl>:

                    corrected description of effect on locks (thanks to

                    Tigran Aivazian <tigrandocument.write('@');(@)sco.com>).

                  Modified Fri Jan 31 16:21:46 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

                  Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nickdocument.write('@');(@)debian.org>

                    added note about close(2) not guaranteeing that data is safe on close.

