

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
exit_group — exit all threads in a process

Synopsis

#include <linux/unistd.h>

void
            exit_group(
int status);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
This system call is equivalent to exit(2) except that it
      terminates not only the calling thread, but all threads in
      the calling process's thread group.

 
RETURN VALUE
This system call does not return.

 
VERSIONS
This call is present since Linux 2.5.35.

 
CONFORMING TO
This call is Linux-specific.

 
NOTES
Since glibc 2.3, this is the system call invoked when the
      exit(2) wrapper function is
      called.

 
SEE ALSO
exit(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 2004 Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

