

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
gettid — get thread identification

Synopsis

#include <sys/types.h>

pid_t
            gettid(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
gettid() returns the
      caller's thread ID (TID). In a single-threaded process, the
      thread ID is equal to the process ID (PID, as returned by
      getpid(2)). In a
      multithreaded process, all threads have the same PID, but
      each one has a unique TID. For further details, see the
      discussion of CLONE_THREAD in
      clone(2).

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, returns the thread ID of the calling
      process.

 
ERRORS
This call is always successful.

 
VERSIONS
The gettid() system call
      first appeared on Linux in kernel 2.4.11.

 
CONFORMING TO
gettid() is Linux-specific
      and should not be used in programs that are intended to be
      portable.

 
NOTES
Glibc does not provide a wrapper for this system call;
      call it using syscall(2).
The thread ID returned by this call is not the same thing
      as a POSIX thread ID (i.e., the opaque value returned by
      pthread_self(3)).

 
SEE ALSO
clone(2), fork(2), getpid(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <amsdocument.write('@');(@)wiw.org>

                  and Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

