

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
getuid, geteuid — get user identity

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>
#include <sys/types.h>

uid_t
            getuid(
void);
 

           
        

uid_t
            geteuid(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
getuid() returns the real
      user ID of the calling process.
geteuid() returns the
      effective user ID of the calling process.

 
ERRORS
These functions are always successful.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD.

 
NOTES

 
History
In UNIX V6 the getuid()
        call returned (euid << 8)
        + uid. UNIX V7 introduced separate calls
        getuid() and geteuid().

 
NOTES
The original Linux getuid()
      and geteuid() system calls
      supported only 16-bit user IDs. Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
      getuid32() and geteuid32(), supporting 32-bit IDs. The
      glibc getuid() and geteuid() wrapper functions transparently
      deal with the variations across kernel versions.

 
SEE ALSO
getresuid(2), setreuid(2), setuid(2), credentials(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Historical remark, aeb, 2004-06-05

