

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
idle — make process 0 idle

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

int
            idle(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
idle() is an internal system
      call used during bootstrap. It marks the process's pages as
      swappable, lowers its priority, and enters the main
      scheduling loop. idle() never
      returns.
Only process 0 may call idle(). Any user process, even a process
      with superuser permission, will receive EPERM.

 
RETURN VALUE
idle() never returns for
      process 0, and always returns −1 for a user
      process.

 
ERRORS

EPERM

Always, for a user process.

 
VERSIONS
Since 2.3.13 this system call does not exist anymore.

 
CONFORMING TO
This function is Linux-specific, and should not be used in
      programs intended to be portable.

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Portions extracted from linux/mm/swap.c:

                                 Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain <mecdocument.write('@');(@)shell.portal.com>:

                    Added text about calling restriction (new in kernel 1.1.20 I believe).

                    N.B. calling "idle" from user process used to hang process!

                  Modified Thu Oct 31 14:41:15 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

                  "

