

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
ipc — System V IPC system calls

Synopsis

int
            ipc(
unsigned int call,

 
int first,

 
int second,

 
int third,

 
void *ptr,

 
long fifth);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
ipc() is a common kernel
      entry point for the System V IPC calls for messages,
      semaphores, and shared memory. call determines which IPC
      function to invoke; the other arguments are passed through to
      the appropriate call.
User programs should call the appropriate functions by
      their usual names. Only standard library implementors and
      kernel hackers need to know about ipc().

 
CONFORMING TO
ipc() is Linux-specific, and
      should not be used in programs intended to be portable.

 
NOTES
On a few architectures, for example ia64, there is no
      ipc() system call; instead
      msgctl(2), semctl(2), shmctl(2), and so on really
      are implemented as separate system calls.

 
SEE ALSO
msgctl(2), msgget(2), msgrcv(2), msgsnd(2), semctl(2), semget(2), semop(2), semtimedop(2), shmat(2), shmctl(2), shmdt(2), shmget(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Chastain (mecdocument.write('@');(@)shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

