

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
outb, outw, outl, outsb, outsw, outsl, inb, inw, inl,
      insb, insw, insl, outb_p, outw_p, outl_p, inb_p, inw_p, inl_p
      — port I/O

 
DESCRIPTION
This family of functions is used to do low-level port
      input and output. The out* functions do port output, the in*
      functions do port input; the b-suffix functions are
      byte-width and the w-suffix functions word-width; the
      _p-suffix functions pause until the I/O completes.
They are primarily designed for internal kernel use, but
      can be used from user space.
You compile with −O or
      −O2 or similar. The
      functions are defined as inline macros, and will not be
      substituted in without optimization enabled, causing
      unresolved references at link time.
You use ioperm(2) or alternatively
      iopl(2) to tell the kernel
      to allow the user space application to access the I/O ports
      in question. Failure to do this will cause the application to
      receive a segmentation fault.

 
CONFORMING TO
outb() and friends are
      hardware-specific. The value argument is passed
      first and the port
      argument is passed second, which is the opposite order from
      most DOS implementations.

 
SEE ALSO
ioperm(2), iopl(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (c) 1995 Paul Gortmaker

                  (gpg109document.write('@');(@)rsphy1.anu.edu.au)
                  Wed Nov 29 10:58:54 EST 1995

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

