

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
pause — wait for signal

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

int
            pause(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
pause() causes the calling
      process (or thread) to sleep until a signal is delivered that
      either terminates the process or causes the invocation of a
      signal-catching function.

 
RETURN VALUE
pause() only returns when a
      signal was caught and the signal-catching function returned.
      In this case pause() returns
      −1, and errno is set to
      EINTR.

 
ERRORS

EINTR

a signal was caught and the signal-catching function
            returned.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

 
SEE ALSO
kill(2), select(2), signal(2), sigsuspend(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drewdocument.write('@');(@)cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified by Michael Haardt (michaeldocument.write('@');(@)moria.de)

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 14:48:00 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mibdocument.write('@');(@)deakin.edu.au)

                  Modified 2000 by aeb, following Michael Kerrisk

