

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
personality — set the process execution domain

Synopsis

#include <sys/personality.h>

int
            personality(
unsigned long persona);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
Linux supports different execution domains, or
      personalities, for each process. Among other things,
      execution domains tell Linux how to map signal numbers into
      signal actions. The execution domain system allows Linux to
      provide limited support for binaries compiled under other
      UNIX-like operating systems.
This function will return the current personality() when persona equals 0xffffffff.
      Otherwise, it will make the execution domain referenced by
      persona the new
      execution domain of the calling process.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, the previous persona is returned. On error,
      −1 is returned, and errno
      is set appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EINVAL

The kernel was unable to change the personality.

 
CONFORMING TO
personality() is
      Linux-specific and should not be used in programs intended to
      be portable.

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyasdocument.write('@');(@)eden.rutgers.edu>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyasdocument.write('@');(@)eden.rutgers.edu>

                  typo corrected, aeb, 950825
                  added layout change from joey, 960722

                  changed prototype, documented 0xffffffff, aeb, 030101

                  Modified 2004-11-03 patch from Martin Schulze <joeydocument.write('@');(@)infodrom.org>

