

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
readahead — perform file readahead into page
      cache

Synopsis

#define _GNU_SOURCE              /* See feature_test_macros(7) */
#include <fcntl.h>

ssize_t
            readahead(
int fd,

 
off64_t offset,

 
size_t count);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
readahead() populates the
      page cache with data from a file so that subsequent reads
      from that file will not block on disk I/O. The fd argument is a file
      descriptor identifying the file which is to be read. The
      offset argument
      specifies the starting point from which data is to be read
      and count specifies
      the number of bytes to be read. I/O is performed in whole
      pages, so that offset
      is effectively rounded down to a page boundary and bytes are
      read up to the next page boundary greater than or equal to
      (offset+count).
      readahead() does not read
      beyond the end of the file. readahead() blocks until the specified data
      has been read. The current file offset of the open file
      referred to by fd is
      left unchanged.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, readahead()
      returns 0; on failure, −1 is returned, with
      errno set to indicate the cause
      of the error.

 
ERRORS

EBADF

fd is not a
            valid file descriptor or is not open for reading.

EINVAL

fd does not
            refer to a file type to which readahead() can be applied.

 
VERSIONS
The readahead() system call
      appeared in Linux 2.4.13; glibc support has been provided
      since version 2.3.

 
CONFORMING TO
The readahead() system call
      is Linux-specific, and its use should be avoided in portable
      applications.

 
SEE ALSO
lseek(2), madvise(2), mmap(2), posix_fadvise(2), read(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  This manpage is Copyright (C) 2004, Michael Kerrisk

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  2004-05-40 Created by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  2004-10-05 aeb, minor correction

