

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
removexattr, lremovexattr, fremovexattr — remove an
      extended attribute

Synopsis

#include <sys/types.h>
#include <attr/xattr.h>

int
            removexattr(
const char *path,

 
const char *name);

           
        

int
            lremovexattr(
const char *path,

 
const char *name);

           
        

int
            fremovexattr(
int fd,

 
const char *name);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
Extended attributes are name:value pairs associated with
      inodes (files, directories, symbolic links, etc.). They are
      extensions to the normal attributes which are associated with
      all inodes in the system (i.e., the stat(2) data). A complete
      overview of extended attributes concepts can be found in
      attr(5).
removexattr() removes the
      extended attribute identified by name and associated with the
      given path in the
      file system.
lremovexattr() is identical
      to removexattr(), except in the
      case of a symbolic link, where the extended attribute is
      removed from the link itself, not the file that it refers
      to.
fremovexattr() is identical
      to removexattr(), only the
      extended attribute is removed from the open file referred to
      by fd (as returned by
      open(2)) in place of
      path.
An extended attribute name is a simple null-terminated
      string. The name
      includes a namespace prefix; there may be several, disjoint
      namespaces associated with an individual inode.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On failure, −1 is
      returned and errno is set
      appropriately.
If the named attribute does not exist, errno is set to ENOATTR.
If extended attributes are not supported by the file
      system, or are disabled, errno
      is set to ENOTSUP.
The errors documented for the stat(2) system call are
      also applicable here.

 
VERSIONS
These system calls have been available on Linux since
      kernel 2.4; glibc support is provided since version 2.3.

 
CONFORMING TO
These system calls are Linux-specific.

 
SEE ALSO
getfattr(1), setfattr(1), getxattr(2), listxattr(2), open(2), setxattr(2), stat(2), attr(5), symlink(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Extended attributes system calls manual pages

                  Copyright (C) Andreas Gruenbacher, February 2001

                  Copyright (C) Silicon Graphics Inc, September 2001

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

