

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
rmdir — delete a directory

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

int
            rmdir(
const char *pathname);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
rmdir() deletes a directory,
      which must be empty.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, −1 is
      returned, and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EACCES

Write access to the directory containing pathname was not allowed,
            or one of the directories in the path prefix of
            pathname did
            not allow search permission. (See also path_resolution(7).

EBUSY

pathname is
            currently in use by the system or some process that
            prevents its removal. On Linux this means pathname is currently
            used as a mount point or is the root directory of the
            calling process.

EFAULT

pathname
            points outside your accessible address space.

EINVAL

pathname has
            . as last component.

ELOOP

Too many symbolic links were encountered in
            resolving pathname.

ENAMETOOLONG

pathname was
            too long.

ENOENT

A directory component in pathname does not exist
            or is a dangling symbolic link.

ENOMEM

Insufficient kernel memory was available.

ENOTDIR

pathname, or
            a component used as a directory in pathname, is not, in
            fact, a directory.

ENOTEMPTY

pathname
            contains entries other than . and .. ; or, pathname has .. as its final component.
            POSIX.1-2001 also allows EEXIST for this condition.

EPERM

The directory containing pathname has the sticky
            bit (S_ISVTX) set and the
            process's effective user ID is neither the user ID of
            the file to be deleted nor that of the directory
            containing it, and the process is not privileged
            (Linux: does not have the CAP_FOWNER capability).

EPERM

The file system containing pathname does not support
            the removal of directories.

EROFS

pathname
            refers to a directory on a read-only file system.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

 
BUGS
Infelicities in the protocol underlying NFS can cause the
      unexpected disappearance of directories which are still being
      used.

 
SEE ALSO
rm(1), rmdir(1), chdir(2), chmod(2), mkdir(2), rename(2), unlink(2), unlinkat(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;

                                                1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith <faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu>

                  Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

                  Modified 2004-06-23 by Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

