

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
setgid — set group identity

Synopsis

#include <sys/types.h>
#include <unistd.h>

int
            setgid(
gid_t gid);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
setgid() sets the effective
      group ID of the calling process. If the caller is the
      superuser, the real GID and saved set-group-ID are also
      set.
Under Linux, setgid() is
      implemented like the POSIX version with the _POSIX_SAVED_IDS feature. This allows a
      set-group-ID program that is not set-user-ID-root to drop all
      of its group privileges, do some un-privileged work, and then
      reengage the original effective group ID in a secure
      manner.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, −1 is
      returned, and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EPERM

The calling process is not privileged (does not have
            the CAP_SETGID
            capability), and gid does not match the
            real group ID or saved set-group-ID of the calling
            process.

 
NOTES
The original Linux setgid()
      system call supported only 16-bit group IDs. Subsequently,
      Linux 2.4 added setgid32()
      supporting 32-bit IDs. The glibc setgid() wrapper function transparently
      deals with the variation across kernel versions.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.

 
SEE ALSO
getgid(2), setegid(2), setregid(2), capabilities(7), credentials(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C), 1994, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Fri Jul 29th 12:56:44 BST 1994  Wilf. <G.Wilforddocument.write('@');(@)ee.surrey.ac.uk>

                  Modified 1997-01-31 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

                  Modified 2002-03-09 by aeb

