

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
setresuid, setresgid — set real, effective and saved
      user or group ID

Synopsis

#define _GNU_SOURCE          /* See feature_test_macros(7) */
#include <unistd.h>

int
            setresuid(
uid_t ruid,

 
uid_t euid,

 
uid_t suid);

           
        

int
            setresgid(
gid_t rgid,

 
gid_t egid,

 
gid_t sgid);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
setresuid() sets the real
      user ID, the effective user ID, and the saved set-user-ID of
      the calling process.
Unprivileged user processes may change the real UID,
      effective UID, and saved set-user-ID, each to one of: the
      current real UID, the current effective UID or the current
      saved set-user-ID.
Privileged processes (on Linux, those having the
      CAP_SETUID capability) may set
      the real UID, effective UID, and saved set-user-ID to
      arbitrary values.
If one of the arguments equals −1, the corresponding
      value is not changed.
Regardless of what changes are made to the real UID,
      effective UID, and saved set-user-ID, the file system UID is
      always set to the same value as the (possibly new) effective
      UID.
Completely analogously, setresgid() sets the real GID, effective
      GID, and saved set-group-ID of the calling process (and
      always modifies the file system GID to be the same as the
      effective GID), with the same restrictions for unprivileged
      processes.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, −1 is
      returned, and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EAGAIN

uid does
            not match the current UID and this call would bring
            that user ID over its RLIMIT_NPROC resource limit.

EPERM

The calling process is not privileged (did not have
            the CAP_SETUID
            capability) and tried to change the IDs to values that
            are not permitted.

 
VERSIONS
These calls are available under Linux since Linux
      2.1.44.

 
CONFORMING TO
These calls are nonstandard; they also appear on HP-UX and
      some of the BSDs.

 
NOTES
Under HP-UX and FreeBSD, the prototype is found in
      <unistd.h>
      Under Linux the prototype is provided by glibc since version
      2.3.2.
The original Linux setresuid() and setresgid() system calls supported only
      16-bit user and group IDs. Subsequently, Linux 2.4 added
      setresuid32() and setresgid32(), supporting 32-bit IDs. The
      glibc setresuid() and
      setresgid() wrapper functions
      transparently deal with the variations across kernel
      versions.

 
SEE ALSO
getresuid(2), getuid(2), setfsgid(2), setfsuid(2), setreuid(2), setuid(2), capabilities(7), credentials(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified, 2003-05-26, Michael Kerrisk, <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

