

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
setsid — creates a session and sets the process
      group ID

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

pid_t
            setsid(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
setsid() creates a new
      session if the calling process is not a process group leader.
      The calling process is the leader of the new session, the
      process group leader of the new process group, and has no
      controlling tty. The process group ID and session ID of the
      calling process are set to the PID of the calling process.
      The calling process will be the only process in this new
      process group and in this new session.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, the (new) session ID of the calling process is
      returned. On error, (pid_t)
      −1 is returned, and errno is set to indicate the error.

 
ERRORS

EPERM

The process group ID of any process equals the PID
            of the calling process. Thus, in particular,
            setsid() fails if the
            calling process is already a process group leader.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
A child created via fork(2) inherits its
      parent's session ID. The session ID is preserved across an
      execve(2).
A process group leader is a process with process group ID
      equal to its PID. In order to be sure that setsid() will succeed, fork(2) and _exit(2), and have the
      child do setsid().

 
SEE ALSO
getsid(2), setpgid(2), setpgrp(2), tcgetsid(3), credentials(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright Michael Haardt (michaeldocument.write('@');(@)cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)

                      Sat Aug 27 20:43:50 MET DST 1994

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Modified Sun Sep 11 19:19:05 1994 <faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu>

                  Modified Mon Mar 25 10:19:00 1996 <aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl> (merged a few

                  tiny changes from a man page by Charles Livingston).

                  Modified Sun Jul 21 14:45:46 1996 <aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl>

