

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
socketcall — socket system calls

Synopsis

int
            socketcall(
int call,

 
unsigned long *args);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
socketcall() is a common
      kernel entry point for the socket system calls. call determines which socket
      function to invoke. args points to a block
      containing the actual arguments, which are passed through to
      the appropriate call.
User programs should call the appropriate functions by
      their usual names. Only standard library implementors and
      kernel hackers need to know about socketcall().

 
CONFORMING TO
This call is specific to Linux, and should not be used in
      programs intended to be portable.

 
NOTES
On a few architectures, for example ia64, there is no
      socketcall() system call;
      instead socket(2), accept(2), bind(2), and so on really
      are implemented as separate system calls.

 
SEE ALSO
accept(2), bind(2), connect(2), getpeername(2), getsockname(2), getsockopt(2), listen(2), recv(2), recvfrom(2), recvmsg(2), send(2), sendmsg(2), sendto(2), setsockopt(2), shutdown(2), socket(2), socketpair(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Chastain (mecdocument.write('@');(@)shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Modified Tue Oct 22 22:11:53 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

