

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
sysfs — get file system type information

Synopsis

int
            sysfs(
int option,

 
const char *fsname);

           
        

int
            sysfs(
int option,

 
unsigned int fs_index,

 
char *buf);

           
        

int
            sysfs(
int option);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
sysfs() returns information
      about the file system types currently present in the kernel.
      The specific form of the sysfs() call and the information returned
      depends on the option
      in effect:

Translate the file-system identifier string
            fsname into a
            file-system type index.

Translate the file-system type index fs_index into a
            null-terminated file-system identifier string. This
            string will be written to the buffer pointed to by
            buf. Make sure
            that buf has
            enough space to accept the string.

Return the total number of file system types
            currently present in the kernel.

The numbering of the file-system type indexes begins with
      zero.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, sysfs() returns
      the file-system index for option 1, zero for option 2, and the number of currently configured
      file systems for option 3. On
      error, −1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EFAULT

Either fsname or buf is outside your
            accessible address space.

EINVAL

fsname is
            not a valid file-system type identifier; fs_index is
            out-of-bounds; option is invalid.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4.

 
NOTES
This System-V derived system call is obsolete; don't use
      it. On systems with /proc, the
      same information can be obtained via /proc/filesystems; use that interface
      instead.

 
BUGS
There is no libc or glibc support. There is no way to
      guess how large buf
      should be.

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyasdocument.write('@');(@)eden.rutgers.edu>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Created   Wed Aug  9 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyasdocument.write('@');(@)eden.rutgers.edu>

