

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
time — get time in seconds

Synopsis

#include <time.h>

time_t
            time(
time_t *t);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
time() returns the time as
      the number of seconds since the Epoch, 1970-01-01 00:00:00
      +0000 (UTC).
If t is non-NULL,
      the return value is also stored in the memory pointed to by
      t.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, the value of time in seconds since the Epoch
      is returned. On error, ((time_t)
      −1) is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EFAULT

t points
            outside your accessible address space.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001. POSIX does not
      specify any error conditions.

 
NOTES
POSIX.1 defines seconds since
      the Epoch using a formula that approximates the
      number of seconds between a specified time and the Epoch.
      This formula takes account of the facts that all years that
      are evenly divisible by 4 are leap years, but years that are
      evenly divisible by 100 are not leap years unless they are
      also evenly divisible by 400, in which case they are leap
      years. This value is not the same as the actual number of
      seconds between the time and the Epoch, because of leap
      seconds and because system clocks are not required to be
      synchronized to a standard reference. The intention is that
      the interpretation of seconds since the Epoch values be
      consistent; see POSIX.1-2008 Rationale A.4.15 for further
      rationale.

 
SEE ALSO
date(1), gettimeofday(2), ctime(3), ftime(3), time(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drewdocument.write('@');(@)cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified by Michael Haardt <michaeldocument.write('@');(@)moria.de>

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 14:13:40 1993 by Rik Faith <faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu>

                  Additions by Joseph S. Myers <jsm28document.write('@');(@)cam.ac.uk>, 970909

