

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
tkill, tgkill — send a signal to a thread

Synopsis

int
            tkill(
int tid,

 
int sig);

           
        

int
            tgkill(
int tgid,

 
int tid,

 
int sig);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
tgkill() sends the signal
      sig to the thread
      with the thread ID tid in the thread group
      tgid. (By contrast,
      kill(2) can only be used to
      send a signal to a process (i.e., thread group) as a whole,
      and the signal will be delivered to an arbitrary thread
      within that process.)
tkill() is an obsolete
      predecessor to tgkill(). It
      only allows the target thread ID to be specified, which may
      result in the wrong thread being signaled if a thread
      terminates and its thread ID is recycled. Avoid using this
      system call.
If tgid is
      specified as −1, tgkill()
      is equivalent to tkill().
These are the raw system call interfaces, meant for
      internal thread library use.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, −1 is
      returned, and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EINVAL

An invalid thread ID, thread group ID, or signal was
            specified.

EPERM

Permission denied. For the required permissions, see
            kill(2).

ESRCH

No process with the specified thread ID (and thread
            group ID) exists.

 
VERSIONS
tkill() is supported since
      Linux 2.4.19 / 2.5.4. tgkill()
      was added in Linux 2.5.75.

 
CONFORMING TO
tkill() and tgkill() are Linux-specific and should not
      be used in programs that are intended to be portable.

 
NOTES
See the description of CLONE_THREAD in clone(2) for an explanation
      of thread groups.
Glibc does not provide wrappers for these system calls;
      call them using syscall(2).

 
SEE ALSO
clone(2), gettid(2), kill(2), rt_sigqueueinfo(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.34 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Kerrisk <tmk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  and Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <amsdocument.write('@');(@)wiw.org>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  2004-05-31, added tgkill, ahu, aeb

                  2008-01-15 mtk -- rewote DESCRIPTION

