

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
afs_syscall, break, ftime, getpmsg, gtty, lock, madvise1,
      mpx, prof, profil, putpmsg, security, stty, tuxcall, ulimit,
      vserver — unimplemented system calls

Synopsis

Unimplemented system calls.
  

 
DESCRIPTION
These system calls are not implemented in the Linux 2.6.22
      kernel.

 
RETURN VALUE
These system calls always return −1 and set
      errno to ENOSYS.

 
NOTES
Note that ftime(3), profil(3) and ulimit(3) are implemented
      as library functions.
Some system calls, like alloc_hugepages(2),
      free_hugepages(2),
      ioperm(2), iopl(2), and vm86(2) only exist on
      certain architectures.
Some system calls, like ipc(2), create_module(2), init_module(2), and
      delete_module(2) only exist
      when the Linux kernel was built with support for them.

 
SEE ALSO
syscalls(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mecdocument.write('@');(@)shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Updated, aeb, 980612

