

Linux
          manual pages
Section 2
 

 
 

Name
vm86old, vm86 — enter virtual 8086 mode

Synopsis

#include <sys/vm86.h>

int
            vm86old(
struct vm86_struct *info);

           
        

int
            vm86(
unsigned long fn,

 
struct vm86plus_struct *v86);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The system call vm86() was
      introduced in Linux 0.97p2. In Linux 2.1.15 and 2.0.28 it was
      renamed to vm86old(), and a new
      vm86() was introduced. The
      definition of struct
      vm86_struct was changed in 1.1.8 and 1.1.9.
These calls cause the process to enter VM86 mode
      (virtual-8086 in Intel literature), and are used by
      dosemu.
VM86 mode is an emulation of real mode within a protected
      mode task.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, −1 is
      returned, and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EFAULT

This return value is specific to i386 and indicates
            a problem with getting userspace data.

ENOSYS

This return value indicates the call is not
            implemented on the present architecture.

EPERM

Saved kernel stack exists. (This is a kernel sanity
            check; the saved stack should only exist within vm86
            mode itself.)

 
CONFORMING TO
This call is specific to Linux on 32-bit Intel processors,
      and should not be used in programs intended to be
      portable.

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Copyright 1997 Andries E. Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

