

Linux
          manual pages
Section 1
 

 
 

Name
ipcrm — remove a message queue, semaphore set or
      shared memory id

Synopsis

ipcrm [ −M key | −m id | −Q key | −q id | −S key | −s id ...]

Deprecated usage:

ipcrm shm | msg | sem
              id...

 
DESCRIPTION
ipcrm
      removes System V interprocess communication (IPC) objects and
      associated data structures from the system. In order to
      delete such objects, you must be superuser, or the creator or
      owner of the object.
System V IPC objects are of three types: shared memory,
      message queues, and semaphores. Deletion of a message queue
      or semaphore object is immediate (regardless of whether any
      process still holds an IPC identifier for the object). A
      shared memory object is only removed after all currently
      attached processes have detached (shmdt(2)) the object from
      their virtual address space.
Two syntax styles are supported. The old Linux historical
      syntax specifies a three letter keyword indicating which
      class of object is to be deleted, followed by one or more IPC
      identifiers for objects of this type.
The SUS-compliant syntax allows the specification of zero
      or more objects of all three types in a single command line,
      with objects specified either by key or by identifier. (See
      below.) Both keys and identifiers may be specified in
      decimal, hexadecimal (specified with an initial '0x' or
      '0X'), or octal (specified with an initial '0').

 
OPTIONS

−M
          shmkey

removes the shared memory segment created with
            shmkey
            after the last detach is performed.

−m
          shmid

removes the shared memory segment identified by
            shmid
            after the last detach is performed.

−Q
          msgkey

removes the message queue created with msgkey.

−q
          msgid

removes the message queue identified by msgid.

−S
          semkey

removes the semaphore created with semkey.

−s
          semid

removes the semaphore identified by semid.

The details of the removes are described in msgctl(2), shmctl(2), and semctl(2). The identifiers
      and keys may be found by using ipcs(1).

 
NOTES
In its first Linux implementation, ipcrm used the
      deprecated syntax shown in the SYNOPSIS. Functionality present in other
      *nix implementations of ipcrm has since been added, namely
      the ability to delete resources by key (not just identifier),
      and to respect the same command-line syntax. For backward
      compatibility the previous syntax is still supported.

 
SEE ALSO
ipcs(1), ipcmk(1), msgctl(2), msgget(2), semctl(2), semget(2), shmctl(2), shmdt(2), shmget(2), ftok(3)

 
AVAILABILITY
The ipcrm command is part of the util-linux package and is
      available from
      ftp://ftp.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

                    Copyright 2002 Andre C. Mazzone (linuxdevdocument.write('@');(@)karagee.com)

                  May be distributed under the GNU General Public License

