

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
filesystems — Linux file-system types: minix, ext,
      ext2, ext3, ext4, Reiserfs, XFS, JFS, xia, msdos, umsdos,
      vfat, ntfs, proc, nfs, iso9660, hpfs, sysv, smb, ncpfs

 
DESCRIPTION
When, as is customary, the proc file system is mounted
      on /proc, you can find in the
      file /proc/filesystems which
      file systems your kernel currently supports. If you need a
      currently unsupported one, insert the corresponding module or
      recompile the kernel.
In order to use a file system, you have to mount it; see mount(8).
Below a short description of a few of the available file
      systems.

minix

is the file system used in the Minix operating
            system, the first to run under Linux. It has a number
            of shortcomings: a 64MB partition size limit, short
            filenames, a single timestamp, etc. It remains useful
            for floppies and RAM disks.

ext

is an elaborate extension of the minix file system. It
            has been completely superseded by the second version of
            the extended file system (ext2) and has been
            removed from the kernel (in 2.1.21).

ext2

is the high performance disk file system used by
            Linux for fixed disks as well as removable media. The
            second extended file system was designed as an
            extension of the extended file system (ext). ext2 offers the best
            performance (in terms of speed and CPU usage) of the
            file systems supported under Linux.

ext3

is a journaling version of the ext2 file system. It
            is easy to switch back and forth between ext2 and
            ext3.

ext4

is a set of upgrades to ext3 including substantial
            performance and reliability enhancements, plus large
            increases in volume, file, and directory size
            limits.

Reiserfs

is a journaling file system, designed by Hans
            Reiser, that was integrated into Linux in kernel
            2.4.1.

XFS

is a journaling file system, developed by SGI, that
            was integrated into Linux in kernel 2.4.20.

JFS

is a journaling file system, developed by IBM, that
            was integrated into Linux in kernel 2.4.24.

xiafs

was designed and implemented to be a stable, safe
            file system by extending the Minix file system code. It
            provides the basic most requested features without
            undue complexity. The xia file system is no
            longer actively developed or maintained. It was removed
            from the kernel in 2.1.21.

msdos

is the file system used by DOS, Windows, and some
            OS/2 computers. msdos filenames can be
            no longer than 8 characters, followed by an optional
            period and 3 character extension.

umsdos

is an extended DOS file system used by Linux. It
            adds capability for long filenames, UID/GID, POSIX
            permissions, and special files (devices, named pipes,
            etc.) under the DOS file system, without sacrificing
            compatibility with DOS.

vfat

is an extended DOS file system used by Microsoft
            Windows95 and Windows NT. VFAT adds the capability to
            use long filenames under the MSDOS file system.

ntfs

replaces Microsoft Window's FAT file systems (VFAT,
            FAT32). It has reliability, performance, and
            space-utilization enhancements plus features like ACLs,
            journaling, encryption, and so on.

proc

is a pseudo file system which is used as an
            interface to kernel data structures rather than reading
            and interpreting /dev/kmem. In particular, its files
            do not take disk space. See proc(5).

iso9660

is a CD-ROM file system type conforming to the ISO
            9660 standard.

High Sierra

Linux supports High Sierra, the precursor
                      to the ISO 9660 standard for CD-ROM file
                      systems. It is automatically recognized
                      within the iso9660
                      file-system support under Linux.

Rock Ridge

Linux also supports the System Use Sharing
                      Protocol records specified by the Rock Ridge
                      Interchange Protocol. They are used to
                      further describe the files in the iso9660 file
                      system to a UNIX host, and provide
                      information such as long filenames, UID/GID,
                      POSIX permissions, and devices. It is
                      automatically recognized within the
                      iso9660
                      file-system support under Linux.

hpfs

is the High Performance Filesystem, used in OS/2.
            This file system is read-only under Linux due to the
            lack of available documentation.

sysv

is an implementation of the SystemV/Coherent file
            system for Linux. It implements all of Xenix FS,
            SystemV/386 FS, and Coherent FS.

nfs

is the network file system used to access disks
            located on remote computers.

smb

is a network file system that supports the SMB
            protocol, used by Windows for Workgroups, Windows NT,
            and Lan Manager.
To use smb
            fs, you need a special mount program, which can be
            found in the ksmbfs package, found at ftp://sunsite.unc.edu/pub/Linux/system/Filesystems/smbfs.

ncpfs

is a network file system that supports the NCP
            protocol, used by Novell NetWare.
To use ncpfs, you need special
            programs, which can be found at ftp://linux01.gwdg.de/pub/ncpfs.

 
SEE ALSO
proc(5), fsck(8), mkfs(8), mount(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1996 Daniel Quinlan (Daniel.Quinlandocument.write('@');(@)linux.org)

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  2007-12-14 mtk Added Reiserfs, XFS, JFS.

