

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
ftpusers — list of users that may not log in via the
      FTP daemon

 
DESCRIPTION
The text file ftpusers contains a list of
      users that may not log in using the File Transfer Protocol
      (FTP) server daemon. This file is used not merely for system
      administration purposes but for improving security within a
      TCP/IP networked environment. It will typically contain a
      list of the users that either have no business using ftp or
      have too many privileges to be allowed to log in through the
      FTP server daemon. Such users usually include root, daemon,
      bin, uucp, and news. If your FTP server daemon doesn't use
      ftpusers then it is
      suggested that you read its documentation to find out how to
      block access for certain users. Washington University FTP
      server Daemon (wuftpd) and Professional FTP Daemon (proftpd)
      are known to make use of ftpusers.

 
Format
The format of ftpusers is very simple.
        There is one account name (or username) per line. Lines
        starting with a # are ignored.

 
FILES
/etc/ftpusers

 
SEE ALSO
passwd(5), proftpd(8), wuftpd(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 2000 Christoph J. Thompson <obituarydocument.write('@');(@)linuxbe.org>

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

