

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
host.conf — resolver configuration file

 
DESCRIPTION
The file /etc/host.conf
      contains configuration information specific to the resolver
      library. It should contain one configuration keyword per
      line, followed by appropriate configuration information. The
      keywords recognized are order,
      trim, multi, nospoof,
      spoof, and reorder. These keywords are described
      below.

order

This keyword specifies how host lookups are to be
            performed. It should be followed by one or more lookup
            methods, separated by commas. Valid methods are
            bind, hosts, and nis.

trim

This keyword may be listed more than once. Each time
            it should be followed by a list of domains, separated
            by colons (':'), semicolons (';') or commas (','), with
            the leading dot. When set, the resolv+ library will
            automatically trim the given domain name from the end
            of any hostname resolved via DNS. This is intended for
            use with local hosts and domains. (Related note: trim
            will not affect hostnames gathered via NIS or the hosts
            file. Care should be taken to ensure that the first
            hostname for each entry in the hosts file is fully
            qualified or unqualified, as appropriate for the local
            installation.)

multi

Valid values are on and
            off. If set to
            on, the resolv+ library
            will return all valid addresses for a host that appears
            in the /etc/hosts file,
            instead of only the first. This is off by default, as it may cause a
            substantial performance loss at sites with large hosts
            files.

nospoof

Valid values are on and
            off. If set to
            on, the resolv+ library
            will attempt to prevent hostname spoofing to enhance
            the security of rlogin and
            rsh. It
            works as follows: after performing a host address
            lookup, resolv+ will perform a hostname lookup for that
            address. If the two hostnames do not match, the query
            will fail. The default value is off.

spoofalert

Valid values are on and
            off. If this option is set
            to on and the nospoof option is also set, resolv+
            will log a warning of the error via the syslog
            facility. The default value is off.

spoof

Valid values are off,
            nowarn and warn. If this option is set to
            off, spoofed addresses are
            permitted and no warnings will be emitted via the
            syslog facility. If this option is set to warn, resolv+ will attempt to prevent
            hostname spoofing to enhance the security and log a
            warning of the error via the syslog facility. If this
            option is set to nowarn,
            the resolv+ library will attempt to prevent hostname
            spoofing to enhance the security but not emit warnings
            via the syslog facility. Setting this option to
            anything else is equal to setting it to nowarn.

reorder

Valid values are on and
            off. If set to
            on, resolv+ will attempt
            to reorder host addresses so that local addresses
            (i.e., on the same subnet) are listed first when a
            gethostbyname(3) is
            performed. Reordering is done for all lookup methods.
            The default value is off.

 
ENVIRONMENT
There are six environment variables that can be used to
      allow users to override the behavior which is configured in
      /etc/host.conf.

RESOLV_HOST_CONF

If set this variable points to a file that should be
            read instead of /etc/host.conf.

RESOLV_SERV_ORDER

Overrides the order
            command.

RESOLV_SPOOF_CHECK

Overrides the nospoof,
            spoofalert and
            spoof commands in the same
            way as the spoof command
            is parsed. Valid values are off, nowarn and warn.

RESOLV_MULTI

Overrides the multi
            command.

RESOLV_REORDER

Overrides the reorder
            command.

RESOLV_ADD_TRIM_DOMAINS

A list of domains, separated by colons (':'),
            semicolons (';') or commas (','), with the leading dot,
            which will be added to the list of domains that should
            be trimmed.

RESOLV_OVERRIDE_TRIM_DOMAINS

A list of domains, separated by colons (':'),
            semicolons (';') or commas (','), with the leading dot,
            which will replace the list of domains that should be
            trimmed. Overrides the trim command.

 
FILES

/etc/host.conf

Resolver configuration file

/etc/resolv.conf

Resolver configuration file

/etc/hosts

Local hosts database

 
NOTES
The following differences exist compared to the original
      implementation. A new command spoof and a new environment variable
      RESOLV_SPOOF_CHECK can take
      arguments like off, nowarn and warn. Line comments can appear anywhere and
      not only at the beginning of a line.

 
SEE ALSO
gethostbyname(3), hostname(7), named(8), resolv+(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1997 Martin Schulze (joeydocument.write('@');(@)infodrom.north.de)

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,

                  USA.

                  Much of the text is copied from the manpage of resolv+(8).

                  2003-08-23 Martin Schulze <joeydocument.write('@');(@)infodrom.org> Updated according to glibc 2.3.2

