

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
/etc/hosts.equiv — list of hosts and users that are
      granted "trusted" r command
      access to your system

 
DESCRIPTION
The hosts.equiv
      file allows or denies hosts and users to use the r-commands (e.g., rlogin, rsh or rcp) without supplying a
      password.
The file uses the following format:

[ + |
          − ] [hostname] [username]

The hostname is
      the name of a host which is logically equivalent to the local
      host. Users logged into that host are allowed to access
      like-named user accounts on the local host without supplying
      a password. The hostname may be (optionally)
      preceded by a plus (+) sign. If the plus sign is used alone
      it allows any host to access your system. You can explicitly
      deny access to a host by preceding the hostname by a minus (−)
      sign. Users from that host must always supply a password. For
      security reasons you should always use the FQDN of the
      hostname and not the short hostname.
The username
      entry grants a specific user access to all user accounts
      (except root) without supplying a password. That means the
      user is NOT restricted to like-named accounts. The username may be (optionally)
      preceded by a plus (+) sign. You can also explicitly deny
      access to a specific user by preceding the username with a minus
      (−) sign. This says that the user is not trusted no
      matter what other entries for that host exist.
Netgroups can be specified by preceding the netgroup by an
      @ sign.
Be extremely careful when using the plus (+) sign. A
      simple typographical error could result in a standalone plus
      sign. A standalone plus sign is a wildcard character that
      means "any host"!

 
FILES
/etc/hosts.equiv

 
NOTES
Some systems will only honor the contents of this file
      when it has owner root and no write permission for anybody
      else. Some exceptionally paranoid systems even require that
      there be no other hard links to the file.
Modern systems use the Pluggable Authentication Modules
      library (PAM). With PAM a standalone plus sign is only
      considered a wildcard character which means "any host" when
      the word promiscuous is added to the
      auth component line in your PAM file for the particular
      service (e.g., rlogin).

 
SEE ALSO
rhosts(5), rlogind(8), rshd(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1995 Peter Tobias <tobiasdocument.write('@');(@)et-inf.fho-emden.de>

                  This file may be distributed under the GNU General Public License.

