

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
networks — network name information

 
DESCRIPTION
The file /etc/networks is a
      plain ASCII file that describes known DARPA networks and
      symbolic names for these networks. Each line represents a
      network and has the following structure:

name number aliases
          ...

where the fields are delimited by spaces or tabs. Empty
      lines are ignored. The hash character (#) indicates the start of a comment: this
      character, and the remaining characters up to the end of the
      current line, are ignored by library functions that process
      the file.
The field descriptions are:

name

The symbolic name for the network. Network names can
            contain any printable characters execept white-space
            characters or the comment character.

number

The official number for this network in
            numbers-and-dots notation (see inet(3)). The
            trailing ".0" (for the host component of the network
            address) may be omitted.

aliases

Optional aliases for the network.

This file is read by the route(8) and netstat(8) utilities. Only
      Class A, B or C networks are supported, partitioned networks
      (i.e., network/26 or network/28) are not supported by this
      facility.

 
FILES

/etc/networks

The networks definition file.

 
SEE ALSO
getnetbyaddr(3), getnetbyname(3), getnetent(3), netstat(8), route(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 2001 Martin Schulze <joeydocument.write('@');(@)infodrom.org>

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,

                  USA.
                  2008-09-04, mtk, taken from Debian downstream, with a few light edits

