

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
/etc/nscd.conf — name service cache daemon
      configuration file

 
DESCRIPTION
The file /etc/nscd.conf is
      read from nscd(8) at startup. Each
      line specifies either an attribute and a value, or an
      attribute, service, and a value. Fields are separated either
      by SPACE or TAB characters. A '#' (number sign) indicates the
      beginning of a comment; following characters, up to the end
      of the line, are not interpreted by nscd.
Valid services are passwd,
      group, or hosts.
logfile debug-file-name

Specifies name of the file to which debug info should
          be written.

debug-level
value

Sets the desired debug level.

threads
number

This is the number of threads that are started to wait
          for requests. At least five threads will always be
          created.

server-user
user

If this option is set, nscd will run as this user and
          not as root. If a separate cache for every user is used
          (−S parameter), this option is ignored.

enable-cache
service <yes|no>

Enables or disables the specified service cache.

positive-time-to-live
service value

Sets the TTL (time-to-live) for positive entries
          (successful queries) in the specified cache for
          service.
          Value is in
          seconds. Larger values increase cache hit rates and
          reduce mean response times, but increase problems with
          cache coherence.

negative-time-to-live
service value

Sets the TTL (time-to-live) for negative entries
          (unsuccessful queries) in the specified cache for
          service.
          Value is in
          seconds. Can result in significant performance
          improvements if there are several files owned by UIDs
          (user IDs) not in system databases (for example untarring
          the linux kernel sources as root); should be kept small
          to reduce cache coherency problems.

suggested-size
service value

This is the internal hash table size, value should remain a
          prime number for optimum efficiency.

check-files
service <yes|no>

Enables or disables checking the file belonging to the
          specified service for changes. The
          files are /etc/passwd,
          /etc/group, and
          /etc/hosts.

max-threads
threads

Specifies the maximum number of threads to be
          started.

stat-user
username

Specifies the user who is allowed to request
          statistics.

reload-count
      unlimited | number

Limit on the number of times a cached entry gets
          reloaded without being used before it gets removed. The
          default is 5.

paranoia <yes|no>

Enabling paranoia mode causes nscd to restart itself
          periodically.

restart-interval
time

Sets the restart interval to time seconds if periodic
          restart is enabled by enabling paranoia mode.

persistent service <yes|no>

Keep the content of the cache for service over server
          restarts; useful when paranoia mode is set.

shared service <yes|no>

The memory mapping of the nscd databases for
          service is
          shared with the clients so that they can directly search
          in them instead of having to ask the daemon over the
          socket each time a lookup is performed.

 
SEE ALSO
nscd(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1999, 2000 SuSE GmbH Nuernberg, Germany

                  Author: Thorsten Kukuk <kukukdocument.write('@');(@)suse.de>

                  This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the

                  License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU

                  General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this program; see the file COPYING.  If not,

                  write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place - Suite 330,

                  Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.

