

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
passwd — password file

 
DESCRIPTION
The /etc/passwd file is a
      text file that describes user login accounts for the system.
      It should have read permission allowed for all users (many
      utilities, like ls(1) use it to map user
      IDs to usernames), but write access only for the
      superuser.
In the good old days there was no great problem with this
      general read permission. Everybody could read the encrypted
      passwords, but the hardware was too slow to crack a
      well-chosen password, and moreover the basic assumption used
      to be that of a friendly user-community. These days many
      people run some version of the shadow password suite, where
      /etc/passwd has asterisks (*)
      instead of encrypted passwords, and the encrypted passwords
      are in /etc/shadow, which is
      readable by the superuser only.
Regardless of whether shadow passwords are used, many
      system administrators use an asterisk in the encrypted
      password field to make sure that this user can not
      authenticate him- or herself using a password. (But see NOTES
      below.)
If you create a new login, first put an asterisk in the
      password field, then use passwd(1) to set it.
Each line of the file describes a single user, and has the
      following format:

account:password:UID:GID:GECOS:directory:shell

The field are as follows:

account

the name of the user on the system. It should not
            contain capital letters.

password

the encrypted user password, an asterisk (*), or the
            letter 'x'. (See pwconv(8)
            for an explanation of 'x'.)

UID

the numeric user ID.

GID

the numeric primary group ID for this user.

GECOS

This field is optional and used only for
            informational purposes. Usually, it contains the full
            username. GECOS stands for "General Electric
            Comprehensive Operating System", which was renamed to
            GCOS when GE's large systems division was sold to
            Honeywell. Dennis Ritchie has reported: "Sometimes we
            sent printer output or batch jobs to the GCOS machine.
            The gcos field in the password file was a place to
            stash the information for the $IDENTcard. Not
            elegant."

directory

the user's $HOME directory.

shell

the program to run at login (if empty, use
            /bin/sh). If set to a
            nonexistent executable, the user will be unable to
            login through login(1).

 
FILES
/etc/passwd

 
NOTES
If you want to create user groups, there must be an entry
      in /etc/group, or no group will
      exist.
If the encrypted password is set to an asterisk, the user
      will be unable to login using login(1), but may still
      login using rlogin(1), run existing
      processes and initiate new ones through rsh(1), cron(8), at(1), or mail filters, etc.
      Trying to lock an account by simply changing the shell field
      yields the same result and additionally allows the use of
      su(1).

 
SEE ALSO
login(1), passwd(1), su(1), getpwent(3), getpwnam(3), group(5), shadow(5)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michaeldocument.write('@');(@)moria.de),

                      Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Modified Sun Jul 25 10:46:28 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified Sun Aug 21 18:12:27 1994 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified Sun Jun 18 01:53:57 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Modified Mon Jan  5 20:24:40 MET 1998 by Michael Haardt

                   (michaeldocument.write('@');(@)cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)

