

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
securetty — file which lists ttys from which root
      can log in

 
DESCRIPTION
The file /etc/securetty is
      used by (some versions of) login(1). The file contains
      the device names of tty lines (one per line, without leading
      /dev/) on which root is allowed
      to login. See login.defs(5) if you use the
      shadow suite.

 
FILES
/etc/securetty

 
SEE ALSO
login(1), login.defs(5)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michaeldocument.write('@');(@)moria.de),

                      Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Modified Sun Jul 25 11:06:27 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

