

Linux
          manual pages
Section 5
 

 
 

Name
services — Internet network services list

 
DESCRIPTION
services is a
      plain ASCII file providing a mapping between human-friendly
      textual names for internet services, and their underlying
      assigned port numbers and protocol types. Every networking
      program should look into this file to get the port number
      (and protocol) for its service. The C library routines
      getservent(3), getservbyname(3), getservbyport(3), setservent(3), and
      endservent(3) support
      querying this file from programs.
Port numbers are assigned by the IANA (Internet Assigned
      Numbers Authority), and their current policy is to assign
      both TCP and UDP protocols when assigning a port number.
      Therefore, most entries will have two entries, even for
      TCP-only services.
Port numbers below 1024 (so-called "low numbered" ports)
      can only be bound to by root (see bind(2), tcp(7), and udp(7)). This is so clients
      connecting to low numbered ports can trust that the service
      running on the port is the standard implementation, and not a
      rogue service run by a user of the machine. Well-known port
      numbers specified by the IANA are normally located in this
      root-only space.
The presence of an entry for a service in the services file does not
      necessarily mean that the service is currently running on the
      machine. See inetd.conf(5) for the
      configuration of Internet services offered. Note that not all
      networking services are started by inetd(8), and so won't appear
      in inetd.conf(5). In particular,
      news (NNTP) and mail (SMTP) servers are often initialized
      from the system boot scripts.
The location of the services file is defined by
      _PATH_SERVICES in <netdb.h>
      This is usually set to /etc/services.
Each line describes one service, and is of the form:

service-name port/protocol [aliases ...]

where:
service-name

is the friendly name the service is known by
                  and looked up under. It is case sensitive. Often,
                  the client program is named after the service-name.

port

is the port number (in decimal) to use for
                  this service.

protocol

is the type of protocol to be used. This field
                  should match an entry in the protocols(5)
                  file. Typical values include tcp and
                  udp.

aliases

is an optional space or tab separated list of
                  other names for this service. Again, the names
                  are case sensitive.

Either spaces or tabs may be used to separate the
      fields.
Comments are started by the hash sign (#) and continue
      until the end of the line. Blank lines are skipped.
The service-name
      should begin in the first column of the file, since leading
      spaces are not stripped. service-names can be any
      printable characters excluding space and tab. However, a
      conservative choice of characters should be used to minimize
      compatibility problems. E.g., a−z, 0−9, and
      hyphen (−) would seem a sensible choice.
Lines not matching this format should not be present in
      the file. (Currently, they are silently skipped by getservent(3), getservbyname(3), and
      getservbyport(3). However,
      this behavior should not be relied on.)
This file might be distributed over a network using a
      network-wide naming service like Yellow Pages/NIS or
      BIND/Hesiod.
A sample services file might look like
      this:

netstat         15/tcp
qotd            17/tcp          quote
msp             18/tcp          # message send protocol
msp             18/udp          # message send protocol
chargen         19/tcp          ttytst source
chargen         19/udp          ttytst source
ftp             21/tcp
# 22 − unassigned
telnet          23/tcp

 
FILES

/etc/services

The Internet network services list

<netdb.h>

Definition of _PATH_SERVICES

 
SEE ALSO
listen(2), endservent(3), getservbyname(3), getservbyport(3), getservent(3), setservent(3), inetd.conf(5), protocols(5), inetd(8)
Assigned Numbers RFC, most recently RFC 1700, (AKA
      STD0002)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  This manpage is Copyright (C) 1996 Austin Donnelly <and1000document.write('@');(@)cam.ac.uk>,

                  with additional material Copyright (c) 1995 Martin Schulze

                      <joeydocument.write('@');(@)infodrom.north.de>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                    This manpage was made by merging two independently written manpages,

                    one written by Martin Schulze (18 Oct 95), the other written by

                    Austin Donnelly, (9 Jan 96).

                  Thu Jan 11 12:14:41 1996 Austin Donnelly  <and1000document.write('@');(@)cam.ac.uk>

                    * Merged two services(5) manpages

