

Linux
          manual pages
Section 4
 

 
 

Name
msr — x86 CPU MSR access device

 
DESCRIPTION
/dev/cpu/CPUNUM/msr provides
      an interface to read and write the model-specific registers
      (MSRs) of an x86 CPU. CPUNUM is
      the number of the CPU to access as listed in /proc/cpuinfo.
The register access is done by opening the file and
      seeking to the MSR number as offset in the file, and then
      reading or writing in chunks of 8 bytes. An I/O transfer of
      more than 8 bytes means multiple reads or writes of the same
      register.
This file is protected so that it can only be read and
      written by the user root, or
      members of the group root.

 
NOTES
The msr driver is not
      auto-loaded. On modular kernels you might need to use the
      following command to load it explicitly before use:
$ modprobe msr

 
SEE ALSO
Intel Corporation Intel 64 and IA-32 Architectures
      Software Developer's Manual Volume 3B Appendix B for an
      overview of the Intel CPU MSRs.

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 2009 Intel Corporation, Author Andi Kleen

                  Some sentences copied from comments in arch/x86/kernel/msr.c

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

