

Linux
          manual pages
Section 4
 

 
 

Name
tty — controlling terminal

 
DESCRIPTION
The file /dev/tty is a
      character file with major number 5 and minor number 0,
      usually of mode 0666 and owner.group root.tty. It is a
      synonym for the controlling terminal of a process, if
      any.
In addition to the ioctl(2) requests supported
      by the device that tty refers
      to, the ioctl(2) request
      TIOCNOTTY is supported.

 
TIOCNOTTY
Detach the calling process from its controlling
        terminal.
If the process is the session leader, then SIGHUP and SIGCONT signals are sent to the
        foreground process group and all processes in the current
        session lose their controlling tty.
This ioctl(2) call only works
        on file descriptors connected to /dev/tty. It is used by daemon processes
        when they are invoked by a user at a terminal. The process
        attempts to open /dev/tty. If
        the open succeeds, it detaches itself from the terminal by
        using TIOCNOTTY, while if the
        open fails, it is obviously not attached to a terminal and
        does not need to detach itself.

 
FILES
/dev/tty

 
SEE ALSO
chown(1), mknod(1), ioctl(2), termios(3), console(4), tty_ioctl(4), ttyS(4), agetty(8), mingetty(8)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michaeldocument.write('@');(@)moria.de),

                      Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"

                  and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any

                  document formatting or typesetting system, including

                  intermediate and printed output.

                  This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,

                  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of

                  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the

                  GNU General Public License for more details.

                  You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public

                  License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free

                  Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,

                  USA.

                  Modified 1993-07-24 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 2003-04-07 by Michael Kerrisk

