

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
assert — abort the program if assertion is false

Synopsis

#include <assert.h>

void
            assert(
scalar expression);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
If the macro NDEBUG was
      defined at the moment <assert.h>
      was last included, the macro assert() generates no code, and hence does
      nothing at all. Otherwise, the macro assert() prints an error message to
      standard error and terminates the program by calling
      abort(3) if expression is false (i.e.,
      compares equal to zero).
The purpose of this macro is to help the programmer find
      bugs in his program. The message "assertion failed in file
      foo.c, function do_bar(), line 1287" is of no help at all to
      a user.

 
RETURN VALUE
No value is returned.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001, C89, C99. In C89, expression is required to be of
      type int and undefined behavior
      results if it is not, but in C99 it may have any scalar
      type.

 
BUGS
assert() is implemented as a
      macro; if the expression tested has side-effects, program
      behavior will be different depending on whether NDEBUG is defined. This may create
      Heisenbugs which go away when debugging is turned on.

 
SEE ALSO
abort(3), assert_perror(3), exit(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25document.write('@');(@)rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  License.
                  Modified Sat Jul 24 21:42:42 1993 by Rik Faith <faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu>

                  Modified Tue Oct 22 23:44:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esrdocument.write('@');(@)thyrsus.com>

