

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
catgets — get message from a message catalog

Synopsis

#include <nl_types.h>

char
            *catgets(
nl_catd catalog,

 
int set_number,

 
int message_number,

 
const char *message);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
catgets() reads the message
      message_number, in
      set set_number, from
      the message catalog identified by catalog, where catalog is a catalog descriptor
      returned from an earlier call to catopen(3). The fourth
      argument message
      points to a default message string which will be returned by
      catgets() if the identified
      message catalog is not currently available. The message-text
      is contained in an internal buffer area and should be copied
      by the application if it is to be saved or modified. The
      return string is always terminated with a null byte.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, catgets()
      returns a pointer to an internal buffer area containing the
      null-terminated message string. On failure, catgets() returns the value message.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
These functions are only available in libc.so.4.4.4c and
      above. The Jan 1987 X/Open Portability Guide specifies a more
      subtle error return: message is returned if the
      message catalog specified by catalog is not available, while
      an empty string is returned when the message catalog is
      available but does not contain the specified message. These
      two possible error returns seem to be discarded in SUSv2 in
      favor of always returning message.

 
SEE ALSO
catopen(3), setlocale(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouzadocument.write('@');(@)mrc-applied-psychology.cambridge.ac.uk>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Updated, aeb, 980809

