

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
clearenv — clear the environment

Synopsis

#include <stdlib.h>

int
            clearenv(
void);
 

           
        

Note

Feature Test Macro Requirements
                      for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

clearenv():

_SVID_SOURCE ||
                      _BSD_SOURCE

 
DESCRIPTION
The clearenv() function
      clears the environment of all name-value pairs and sets the
      value of the external variable environ to NULL.

 
RETURN VALUE
The clearenv() function
      returns zero on success, and a nonzero value on failure.

 
VERSIONS
Not in libc4, libc5. In glibc since glibc 2.0.

 
CONFORMING TO
Various UNIX variants (DG/UX, HP-UX, QNX, ...). POSIX.9
      (bindings for FORTRAN77). POSIX.1-1996 did not accept
      clearenv() and putenv(3), but changed its
      mind and scheduled these functions for some later issue of
      this standard (cf. B.4.6.1). However, POSIX.1-2001 only adds
      putenv(3), and rejected
      clearenv().

 
NOTES
Used in security-conscious applications. If it is
      unavailable the assignment

    environ = NULL;

will probably do.
The DG/UX and Tru64 man pages write: If environ has been modified by anything other
      than the putenv(3), getenv(3), or clearenv() functions, then clearenv() will return an error and the
      process environment will remain unchanged.

 
SEE ALSO
getenv(3), putenv(3), setenv(3), unsetenv(3), environ(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 2001 John Levon <mozdocument.write('@');(@)compsoc.man.ac.uk>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Additions, aeb, 2001-10-17.

