

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
clock — Determine processor time

Synopsis

#include <time.h>

clock_t
            clock(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The clock() function returns
      an approximation of processor time used by the program.

 
RETURN VALUE
The value returned is the CPU time used so far as a
      clock_t; to get the number of
      seconds used, divide by CLOCKS_PER_SEC. If the processor time used
      is not available or its value cannot be represented, the
      function returns the value (clock_t) −1.

 
CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001. POSIX requires that CLOCKS_PER_SEC equals 1000000 independent
      of the actual resolution.

 
NOTES
The C standard allows for arbitrary values at the start of
      the program; subtract the value returned from a call to
      clock() at the start of the
      program to get maximum portability.
Note that the time can wrap around. On a 32-bit system
      where CLOCKS_PER_SEC equals
      1000000 this function will return the same value
      approximately every 72 minutes.
On several other implementations, the value returned by
      clock() also includes the times
      of any children whose status has been collected via wait(2) (or another
      wait-type call). Linux does not include the times of
      waited-for children in the value returned by clock(). The times(2) function, which
      explicitly returns (separate) information about the caller
      and its children, may be preferable.

 
SEE ALSO
clock_gettime(2), getrusage(2), times(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25document.write('@');(@)rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  License.
                  Modified Sat Jul 24 21:27:01 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 14 Jun 2002, Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Added notes on differences from other UNIX systems with respect to

                  waited-for children.

