

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
closedir — close a directory

Synopsis

#include <sys/types.h>

#include <dirent.h>

int
            closedir(
DIR *dirp);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The closedir() function
      closes the directory stream associated with dirp. A successful call to
      closedir() also closes the
      underlying file descriptor associated with dirp. The directory stream
      descriptor dirp is
      not available after this call.

 
RETURN VALUE
The closedir() function
      returns 0 on success. On error, −1 is returned, and
      errno is set appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EBADF

Invalid directory stream descriptor dirp.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD.

 
SEE ALSO
close(2), opendir(3), readdir(3), rewinddir(3), scandir(3), seekdir(3), telldir(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 21:25:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

