

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
difftime — calculate time difference

Synopsis

#include <time.h>

double
            difftime(
time_t time1,

 
time_t time0);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The difftime() function
      returns the number of seconds elapsed between time time1 and time time0, represented as a
      double. Each of the times is
      specified in calendar time, which means its value is a
      measurement (in seconds) relative to the Epoch, 1970-01-01
      00:00:00 +0000 (UTC).

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.

 
NOTES
On a POSIX system, time_t is an
      arithmetic type, and one could just define

#define difftime(t1,t0) (double)(t1 − t0)

when the possible overflow in the subtraction is not a
      concern. On other systems, the data type time_t might use some other encoding where
      subtraction doesn't work directly.

 
SEE ALSO
date(1), gettimeofday(2), time(2), ctime(3), gmtime(3), localtime(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 19:48:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

