

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
futimes, lutimes — change file timestamps

Synopsis

#include <sys/time.h>

int
            futimes(
int fd,

 
const struct timeval tv[2]);

           
        

int
            lutimes(
const char *filename,

 
const struct timeval tv[2]);

           
        

Note

Feature Test Macro Requirements
                      for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

futimes(), lutimes():

_BSD_SOURCE

 
DESCRIPTION
futimes() changes the access
      and modification times of a file in the same way as utimes(2), with the
      difference that the file whose timestamps are to be changed
      is specified via a file descriptor, fd, rather than via a
      pathname.
lutimes() changes the access
      and modification times of a file in the same way as utimes(2), with the
      difference that if filename refers to a symbolic
      link, then the link is not dereferenced: instead, the
      timestamps of the symbolic link are changed.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, −1 is
      returned, and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS
Errors are as for utimes(2), with the
      following additions for futimes():

EBADF

fd is not a
            valid file descriptor.

ENOSYS

The /proc file system
            could not be accessed.

 
VERSIONS
futimes() is available since
      glibc 2.3. lutimes() is
      available since glibc 2.6, and is implemented using the
      utimensat(2) system call,
      which is supported since kernel 2.6.22.

 
CONFORMING TO
These functions are not specified in any standard. Other
      than Linux, they are only available on the BSDs.

 
SEE ALSO
utime(2), utimensat(2), symlink(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (c) 2006, 2008, Michael Kerrisk

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

