

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
getenv — get an environment variable

Synopsis

#include <stdlib.h>

char
            *getenv(
const char *name);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The getenv() function
      searches the environment list to find the environment
      variable name, and
      returns a pointer to the corresponding value string.

 
RETURN VALUE
The getenv() function
      returns a pointer to the value in the environment, or NULL if
      there is no match.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.

 
NOTES
The strings in the environment list are of the form
      name=value.
As typically implemented, getenv() returns a pointer to a string
      within the environment list. The caller must take care not to
      modify this string, since that would change the environment
      of the process.
The implementation of getenv() is not required to be reentrant.
      The string pointed to by the return value of getenv() may be statically allocated, and
      can be modified by a subsequent call to getenv(), putenv(3), setenv(3), or unsetenv(3).

 
SEE ALSO
clearenv(3), putenv(3), setenv(3), unsetenv(3), environ(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  and Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's "POSIX Programmer's Guide" (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 19:30:29 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

