

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
index, rindex — locate character in string

Synopsis

#include <strings.h>

char
            *index(
const char *s,

 
int c);

           
        

char
            *rindex(
const char *s,

 
int c);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The index() function returns
      a pointer to the first occurrence of the character c in the string s.
The rindex() function
      returns a pointer to the last occurrence of the character
      c in the string
      s.
The terminating null byte ('\0') is considered to be a
      part of the strings.

 
RETURN VALUE
The index() and rindex() functions return a pointer to the
      matched character or NULL if the character is not found.

 
CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD; marked as LEGACY in POSIX.1-2001. POSIX.1-2008
      removes the specifications of index() and rindex(), recommending strchr(3) and strrchr(3) instead.

 
SEE ALSO
memchr(3), strchr(3), string(3), strpbrk(3), strrchr(3), strsep(3), strspn(3), strstr(3), strtok(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.34 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Mon Apr 12 12:54:34 1993, David Metcalfe

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 19:13:52 1993, Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

