

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
infnan — deal with infinite or not-a-number (NaN)
      result

Synopsis

#include <math.h>

double
            infnan(
int error);

           
        

Note

Link with −lm.

 
DESCRIPTION
The infnan() function
      returns a suitable value for infinity and "not-a-number"
      (NaN) results. The value of error can be ERANGE to represent infinity or anything
      else to represent NaN. errno is
      also set.

 
RETURN VALUE
If error is
      ERANGE (Infinity),
      HUGE_VAL is returned.
If error is
      −ERANGE
      (−Infinity), −HUGE_VAL is returned.
If error is
      anything else, NAN is returned.

 
ERRORS

EDOM

The value of error is "not-a-number"
            (NaN).

ERANGE

The value of error is positive
            infinity or negative infinity.

 
CONFORMING TO
4.3BSD.

 
NOTES
This obsolete function was provided in libc4 and libc5,
      but is not available in glibc2.

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 19:11:11 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 2004-11-12 as per suggestion by Fabian Kreutz/AEB

                  to note that this function is not available in glibc2.

