

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
intro — Introduction to library functions

 
DESCRIPTION
Section 3 of the manual describes all library functions
      excluding the library functions (system call wrappers)
      described in section 2, which implement system calls.
Many of the functions described in the section are part of
      the Standard C Library (libc
      Some functions are part of other libraries (e.g., the math
      library, libm or the real-time
      library, librt in which case
      the manual page will indicate the linker option needed to
      link against the required library (e.g., −lm and −lrt, respectively, for the
      aforementioned libraries).
In some cases, the programmer must define a feature test
      macro in order to obtain the declaration of a function from
      the header file specified in the man page SYNOPSIS section.
      (Where required, these feature test macros must be defined
      before including any header
      files.) In such cases, the required macro is described in the
      man page. For further information on feature test macros, see
      feature_test_macros(7).

 
CONFORMING TO
Certain terms and abbreviations are used to indicate UNIX
      variants and standards to which calls in this section
      conform. See standards(7).

 
NOTES

 
Authors and Copyright Conditions
Look at the header of the manual page source for the
        author(s) and copyright conditions. Note that these can be
        different from page to page!

 
SEE ALSO
intro(2), errno(3), capabilities(7), credentials(7), feature_test_macros(7),
      libc(7), math_error(7), environ(7), path_resolution(7),
      pthreads(7), signal(7), standards(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 2007 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  2007-10-23 mtk, Nearly a complete rewrite of the earlier page.

