

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
isatty — test whether a file descriptor refers to a
      terminal

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

int
            isatty(
int fd);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The isatty() function tests
      whether fd is an open
      file descriptor referring to a terminal.

 
RETURN VALUE
isatty() returns 1 if
      fd is an open file
      descriptor referring to a terminal; otherwise 0 is returned,
      and errno is set to indicate the
      error.

 
ERRORS

EBADF

fd is not a
            valid file descriptor.

EINVAL

fd refers to
            a file other than a terminal. POSIX.1-2001 specifies
            the error ENOTTY for
            this case.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

 
SEE ALSO
fstat(2), ttyname(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 2008, Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk

                      <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

