

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
iswalnum — test for alphanumeric wide character

Synopsis

#include <wctype.h>

int
            iswalnum(
wint_t wc);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The iswalnum() function is
      the wide-character equivalent of the isalnum(3) function. It
      tests whether wc is a
      wide character belonging to the wide-character class
      "alnum".
The wide-character class "alnum" is a subclass of the
      wide-character class "graph", and therefore also a subclass
      of the wide-character class "print".
Being a subclass of the wide-character class "print", the
      wide-character class "alnum" is disjoint from the
      wide-character class "cntrl".
Being a subclass of the wide-character class "graph", the
      wide-character class "alnum" is disjoint from the
      wide-character class "space" and its subclass "blank".
The wide-character class "alnum" is disjoint from the
      wide-character class "punct".
The wide-character class "alnum" is the union of the
      wide-character classes "alpha" and "digit". As such, it also
      contains the wide-character class "xdigit".
The wide-character class "alnum" always contains at least
      the letters 'A' to 'Z', 'a' to 'z' and the digits '0' to
      '9'.

 
RETURN VALUE
The iswalnum() function
      returns nonzero if wc
      is a wide character belonging to the wide-character class
      "alnum". Otherwise it returns zero.

 
CONFORMING TO
C99.

 
NOTES
The behavior of iswalnum()
      depends on the LC_CTYPE
      category of the current locale.

 
SEE ALSO
isalnum(3), iswctype(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) Bruno Haible <haibledocument.write('@');(@)clisp.cons.org>

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  References consulted:
                    GNU glibc-2 source code and manual

                    Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/

                    OpenGroup's Single UNIX specification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html

                    ISO/IEC 9899:1999

