

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
iswupper — test for uppercase wide character

Synopsis

#include <wctype.h>

int
            iswupper(
wint_t wc);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The iswupper() function is
      the wide-character equivalent of the isupper(3) function. It
      tests whether wc is a
      wide character belonging to the wide-character class
      "upper".
The wide-character class "upper" is a subclass of the
      wide-character class "alpha", and therefore also a subclass
      of the wide-character class "alnum", of the wide-character
      class "graph" and of the wide-character class "print".
Being a subclass of the wide-character class "print", the
      wide-character class "upper" is disjoint from the
      wide-character class "cntrl".
Being a subclass of the wide-character class "graph", the
      wide-character class "upper" is disjoint from the
      wide-character class "space" and its subclass "blank".
Being a subclass of the wide-character class "alnum", the
      wide-character class "upper" is disjoint from the
      wide-character class "punct".
Being a subclass of the wide-character class "alpha", the
      wide-character class "upper" is disjoint from the
      wide-character class "digit".
The wide-character class "upper" contains at least those
      characters wc which
      are equal to towupper(wc) and different
      from towlower(wc).
The wide-character class "upper" always contains at least
      the letters 'A' to 'Z'.

 
RETURN VALUE
The iswupper() function
      returns nonzero if wc
      is a wide character belonging to the wide-character class
      "upper". Otherwise it returns zero.

 
CONFORMING TO
C99.

 
NOTES
The behavior of iswupper()
      depends on the LC_CTYPE
      category of the current locale.
This function is not very appropriate for dealing with
      Unicode characters, because Unicode knows about three cases:
      upper, lower and title case.

 
SEE ALSO
isupper(3), iswctype(3), towupper(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) Bruno Haible <haibledocument.write('@');(@)clisp.cons.org>

                  This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or

                  modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as

                  published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of

                  the License, or (at your option) any later version.

                  References consulted:
                    GNU glibc-2 source code and manual

                    Dinkumware C library reference http://www.dinkumware.com/

                    OpenGroup's Single UNIX specification http://www.UNIX-systems.org/online.html

                    ISO/IEC 9899:1999

