

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
localeconv — get numeric formatting information

Synopsis

#include <locale.h>

struct lconv
            *localeconv(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The localeconv() function
      returns a pointer to a struct
      lconv for the current locale. This structure is
      shown in locale(7), and contains all
      values associated with the locale categories LC_NUMERIC and LC_MONETARY. Programs may also use the
      functions printf(3) and strfmon(3), which behave
      according to the actual locale in use.

 
CONFORMING TO
C89, C99.

 
BUGS
The printf(3) family of
      functions may or may not honor the current locale.

 
SEE ALSO
locale(1), localedef(1), isalpha(3), nl_langinfo(3), setlocale(3), strcoll(3), strftime(3), locale(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25document.write('@');(@)rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  License.
                  Modified Sat Jul 24 19:01:20 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

