

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
memchr, memrchr, rawmemchr — scan memory for a
      character

Synopsis

#include <string.h>

void
            *memchr(
const void *s,

 
int c,

 
size_t n);

           
        

void
            *memrchr(
const void *s,

 
int c,

 
size_t n);

           
        

void
            *rawmemchr(
const void *s,

 
int c);

           
        

Note

Feature Test Macro Requirements
                      for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

memrchr(), rawmemchr():

_GNU_SOURCE

 
DESCRIPTION
The memchr() function scans
      the first n bytes of
      the memory area pointed to by s for the character c. The first byte to match
      c (interpreted as an
      unsigned character) stops the operation.
The memrchr() function is
      like the memchr() function,
      except that it searches backward from the end of the
      n bytes pointed to by
      s instead of forward
      from the beginning.
The rawmemchr() function is
      similar to memchr(): it assumes
      (i.e., the programmer knows for certain) that the character
      c lies somewhere in
      the string s, and so
      performs an optimized search for the character c (i.e., no checking for the
      terminating null byte, or use of an argument, n, to limit the range of the
      search). If the character c is not in the string
      s, then rawmemchr() may proceed to search beyond
      the end of the string, and the result is unspecified. The
      following call is a fast means of locating a string's
      terminating null byte:

char *p = rawmemchr(s, '\0');

 
RETURN VALUE
The memchr() and
      memrchr() functions return a
      pointer to the matching byte or NULL if the character does
      not occur in the given memory area.
The rawmemchr() function
      returns a pointer to the matching byte, if one is found. If
      no matching byte is found, the result is unspecified.

 
VERSIONS
rawmemchr() first appeared
      in glibc in version 2.1.
memrchr() first appeared in
      glibc in version 2.2.

 
CONFORMING TO
The memchr() function
      conforms to SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.
The memrchr() function is a
      GNU extension, available since glibc 2.1.91.
The rawmemchr() function is
      a GNU extension, available since glibc 2.1.

 
SEE ALSO
ffs(3), index(3), rindex(3), strchr(3), strpbrk(3), strrchr(3), strsep(3), strspn(3), strstr(3), wmemchr(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  and Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk

                      <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Modified Mon Apr 12 12:49:57 1993, David Metcalfe

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 18:56:22 1993, Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified Wed Feb 20 21:09:36 2002, Ian Redfern (redfernidocument.write('@');(@)logica.com)

                  2008-07-09, mtk, add rawmemchr()

