

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
PCRE — Perl-compatible regular expressions . .

 
PCRE BUILD-TIME OPTIONS
This document describes the optional features of PCRE that
      can be selected when the library is compiled. It assumes use
      of the configure script, where
      the optional features are selected or deselected by providing
      options to configure before
      running the make command. However, the
      same options can be selected in both Unix-like and
      non-Unix-like environments using the GUI facility of
      cmake-gui if you
      are using CMake
      instead of configure to build
      PCRE.
There is a lot more information about building PCRE in
      non-Unix-like environments in the file called NON_UNIX_USE, which is part of the PCRE
      distribution. You should consult this file as well as the
      README file if you are building
      in a non-Unix-like environment.
The complete list of options for configure (which includes the standard ones
      such as the selection of the installation directory) can be
      obtained by running

./configure --help

The following sections include descriptions of options
      whose names begin with --enable or --disable. These settings
      specify changes to the defaults for the configure command. Because of the way that
      configure works, --enable and
      --disable always come in pairs, so the complementary option
      always exists as well, but as it specifies the default, it is
      not described.

 
BUILDING SHARED AND STATIC LIBRARIES
The PCRE building process uses libtool to build both
      shared and static Unix libraries by default. You can suppress
      one of these by adding one of

 --disable-shared
 --disable-static

to the configure command, as
      required.

 
C++ SUPPORT
By default, the configure
      script will search for a C++ compiler and C++ header files.
      If it finds them, it automatically builds the C++ wrapper
      library for PCRE. You can disable this by adding

--disable-cpp

to the configure
      command.

 
UTF-8 SUPPORT
To build PCRE with support for UTF-8 Unicode character
      strings, add

--enable-utf8

to the configure command. Of
      itself, this does not make PCRE treat strings as UTF-8. As
      well as compiling PCRE with this option, you also have have
      to set the PCRE_UTF8 option when you call the pcre_compile() or pcre_compile2() functions.
If you set --enable-utf8 when compiling in an EBCDIC
      environment, PCRE expects its input to be either ASCII or
      UTF-8 (depending on the runtime option). It is not possible
      to support both EBCDIC and UTF-8 codes in the same version of
      the library. Consequently, --enable-utf8 and --enable-ebcdic
      are mutually exclusive.

 
UNICODE CHARACTER PROPERTY SUPPORT
UTF-8 support allows PCRE to process character values
      greater than 255 in the strings that it handles. On its own,
      however, it does not provide any facilities for accessing the
      properties of such characters. If you want to be able to use
      the pattern escapes \P, \p, and \X, which refer to Unicode
      character properties, you must add

--enable-unicode-properties

to the configure command.
      This implies UTF-8 support, even if you have not explicitly
      requested it.
Including Unicode property support adds around 30K of
      tables to the PCRE library. Only the general category
      properties such as Lu and Nd are supported. Details are
      given in the pcrepattern(3)
      documentation.

 
CODE VALUE OF NEWLINE
By default, PCRE interprets the linefeed (LF) character as
      indicating the end of a line. This is the normal newline
      character on Unix-like systems. You can compile PCRE to use
      carriage return (CR) instead, by adding

--enable-newline-is-cr

to the configure command.
      There is also a --enable-newline-is-lf option, which
      explicitly specifies linefeed as the newline character.
Alternatively, you can specify that line endings are to be
      indicated by the two character sequence CRLF. If you want
      this, add

--enable-newline-is-crlf

to the configure command.
      There is a fourth option, specified by

--enable-newline-is-anycrlf

which causes PCRE to recognize any of the three sequences
      CR, LF, or CRLF as indicating a line ending. Finally, a fifth
      option, specified by

--enable-newline-is-any

causes PCRE to recognize any Unicode newline sequence.
Whatever line ending convention is selected when PCRE is
      built can be overridden when the library functions are
      called. At build time it is conventional to use the standard
      for your operating system.

 
WHAT \R MATCHES
By default, the sequence \R in a pattern matches any
      Unicode newline sequence, whatever has been selected as the
      line ending sequence. If you specify

--enable-bsr-anycrlf

the default is changed so that \R matches only CR, LF, or
      CRLF. Whatever is selected when PCRE is built can be
      overridden when the library functions are called.

 
POSIX MALLOC USAGE
When PCRE is called through the POSIX interface (see the
      pcreposix(3)
      documentation), additional working storage is required for
      holding the pointers to capturing substrings, because PCRE
      requires three integers per substring, whereas the POSIX
      interface provides only two. If the number of expected
      substrings is small, the wrapper function uses space on the
      stack, because this is faster than using malloc() for each call. The default
      threshold above which the stack is no longer used is 10; it
      can be changed by adding a setting such as

--with-posix-malloc-threshold=20

to the configure
      command.

 
HANDLING VERY LARGE PATTERNS
Within a compiled pattern, offset values are used to point
      from one part to another (for example, from an opening
      parenthesis to an alternation metacharacter). By default,
      two-byte values are used for these offsets, leading to a
      maximum size for a compiled pattern of around 64K. This is
      sufficient to handle all but the most gigantic patterns.
      Nevertheless, some people do want to process truyl enormous
      patterns, so it is possible to compile PCRE to use three-byte
      or four-byte offsets by adding a setting such as

--with-link-size=3

to the configure command.
      The value given must be 2, 3, or 4. Using longer offsets
      slows down the operation of PCRE because it has to load
      additional bytes when handling them.

 
AVOIDING EXCESSIVE STACK USAGE
When matching with the pcre_exec() function, PCRE implements
      backtracking by making recursive calls to an internal
      function called match(). In
      environments where the size of the stack is limited, this can
      severely limit PCRE's operation. (The Unix environment does
      not usually suffer from this problem, but it may sometimes be
      necessary to increase the maximum stack size. There is a
      discussion in the pcrestack(3)
      documentation.) An alternative approach to recursion that
      uses memory from the heap to remember data, instead of using
      recursive function calls, has been implemented to work round
      the problem of limited stack size. If you want to build a
      version of PCRE that works this way, add

--disable-stack-for-recursion

to the configure command.
      With this configuration, PCRE will use the pcre_stack_malloc and pcre_stack_free variables to call memory
      management functions. By default these point to malloc() and free(), but you can replace the pointers so
      that your own functions are used instead.
Separate functions are provided rather than using
      pcre_malloc and pcre_free because the usage is very
      predictable: the block sizes requested are always the same,
      and the blocks are always freed in reverse order. A calling
      program might be able to implement optimized functions that
      perform better than malloc()
      and free(). PCRE runs
      noticeably more slowly when built in this way. This option
      affects only the pcre_exec()
      function; it is not relevant for pcre_dfa_exec().

 
LIMITING PCRE RESOURCE USAGE
Internally, PCRE has a function called match(), which it calls repeatedly
      (sometimes recursively) when matching a pattern with the
      pcre_exec() function. By
      controlling the maximum number of times this function may be
      called during a single matching operation, a limit can be
      placed on the resources used by a single call to pcre_exec(). The limit can be changed at
      run time, as described in the pcreapi(3) documentation.
      The default is 10 million, but this can be changed by adding
      a setting such as

--with-match-limit=500000

to the configure command.
      This setting has no effect on the pcre_dfa_exec() matching function.
In some environments it is desirable to limit the depth of
      recursive calls of match() more
      strictly than the total number of calls, in order to restrict
      the maximum amount of stack (or heap, if
      --disable-stack-for-recursion is specified) that is used. A
      second limit controls this; it defaults to the value that is
      set for --with-match-limit, which imposes no additional
      constraints. However, you can set a lower limit by adding,
      for example,

--with-match-limit-recursion=10000

to the configure command.
      This value can also be overridden at run time.

 
CREATING CHARACTER TABLES AT BUILD TIME
PCRE uses fixed tables for processing characters whose
      code values are less than 256. By default, PCRE is built with
      a set of tables that are distributed in the file pcre_chartables.c.dist. These
      tables are for ASCII codes only. If you add

--enable-rebuild-chartables

to the configure command,
      the distributed tables are no longer used. Instead, a program
      called dftables
      is compiled and run. This outputs the source for new set of
      tables, created in the default locale of your C runtime
      system. (This method of replacing the tables does not work if
      you are cross compiling, because dftables is run on the
      local host. If you need to create alternative tables when
      cross compiling, you will have to do so "by hand".)

 
USING EBCDIC CODE
PCRE assumes by default that it will run in an environment
      where the character code is ASCII (or Unicode, which is a
      superset of ASCII). This is the case for most computer
      operating systems. PCRE can, however, be compiled to run in
      an EBCDIC environment by adding

--enable-ebcdic

to the configure command.
      This setting implies --enable-rebuild-chartables. You should
      only use it if you know that you are in an EBCDIC environment
      (for example, an IBM mainframe operating system). The
      --enable-ebcdic option is incompatible with
      --enable-utf8.

 
PCREGREP OPTIONS FOR COMPRESSED FILE SUPPORT
By default, pcregrep reads all files as
      plain text. You can build it so that it recognizes files
      whose names end in .gz or .bz2, and reads them with
      libz or libbz2, respectively, by adding one or both
      of

 --enable-pcregrep-libz
 --enable-pcregrep-libbz2

to the configure command.
      These options naturally require that the relevant libraries
      are installed on your system. Configuration will fail if they
      are not.

 
PCREGREP BUFFER SIZE
pcregrep
      uses an internal buffer to hold a "window" on the file it is
      scanning, in order to be able to output "before" and "after"
      lines when it finds a match. The size of the buffer is
      controlled by a parameter whose default value is 20K. The
      buffer itself is three times this size, but because of the
      way it is used for holding "before" lines, the longest line
      that is guaranteed to be processable is the parameter size.
      You can change the default parameter value by adding, for
      example,

--with-pcregrep-bufsize=50K

to the configure command.
      The caller of pcregrep can, however,
      override this value by specifying a run-time option.

 
PCRETEST OPTION FOR LIBREADLINE SUPPORT
If you add

--enable-pcretest-libreadline

to the configure command,
      pcretest is
      linked with the libreadline
      library, and when its input is from a terminal, it reads it
      using the readline() function.
      This provides line-editing and history facilities. Note that
      libreadline is GPL-licensed, so
      if you distribute a binary of pcretest linked in this
      way, there may be licensing issues.
Setting this option causes the −lreadline option to be added to the
      pcretest build.
      In many operating environments with a sytem-installed
      libreadline this is sufficient.
      However, in some environments (e.g. if an unmodified
      distribution version of readline is in use), some extra
      configuration may be necessary. The INSTALL file for
      libreadline says this:

 "Readline uses the termcap functions, but does not link with the
 termcap or curses library itself, allowing applications which link
 with readline the to choose an appropriate library."

If your environment has not been set up so that an
      appropriate library is automatically included, you may need
      to add something like

LIBS="-ncurses"

immediately before the configure command.

 
SEE ALSO
pcreapi(3), pcre_config(3).

 
AUTHOR

Philip Hazel
University Computing Service
Cambridge CB2 3QH, England.

 
REVISION

Last updated: 02 August 2011
Copyright (c) 1997-2011 University of Cambridge.

COPYRIGHT

This manual page is taken from the PCRE library, which is distributed under
                the BSD license.

