

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
PCRE — Perl-compatible regular expressions

 
PCRE MATCHING ALGORITHMS
This document describes the two different algorithms that
      are available in PCRE for matching a compiled regular
      expression against a given subject string. The "standard"
      algorithm is the one provided by the pcre_exec() function. This works in the
      same was as Perl's matching function, and provides a
      Perl-compatible matching operation.
An alternative algorithm is provided by the pcre_dfa_exec() function; this operates in
      a different way, and is not Perl-compatible. It has
      advantages and disadvantages compared with the standard
      algorithm, and these are described below.
When there is only one possible way in which a given
      subject string can match a pattern, the two algorithms give
      the same answer. A difference arises, however, when there are
      multiple possibilities. For example, if the pattern

^<.*>

is matched against the string

<something> <something else> <something further>

there are three possible answers. The standard algorithm
      finds only one of them, whereas the alternative algorithm
      finds all three.

 
REGULAR EXPRESSIONS AS TREES
The set of strings that are matched by a regular
      expression can be represented as a tree structure. An
      unlimited repetition in the pattern makes the tree of
      infinite size, but it is still a tree. Matching the pattern
      to a given subject string (from a given starting point) can
      be thought of as a search of the tree. There are two ways to
      search a tree: depth-first and breadth-first, and these
      correspond to the two matching algorithms provided by
      PCRE.

 
THE STANDARD MATCHING ALGORITHM
In the terminology of Jeffrey Friedl's book "Mastering
      Regular Expressions", the standard algorithm is an "NFA
      algorithm". It conducts a depth-first search of the pattern
      tree. That is, it proceeds along a single path through the
      tree, checking that the subject matches what is required.
      When there is a mismatch, the algorithm tries any
      alternatives at the current point, and if they all fail, it
      backs up to the previous branch point in the tree, and tries
      the next alternative branch at that level. This often
      involves backing up (moving to the left) in the subject
      string as well. The order in which repetition branches are
      tried is controlled by the greedy or ungreedy nature of the
      quantifier.
If a leaf node is reached, a matching string has been
      found, and at that point the algorithm stops. Thus, if there
      is more than one possible match, this algorithm returns the
      first one that it finds. Whether this is the shortest, the
      longest, or some intermediate length depends on the way the
      greedy and ungreedy repetition quantifiers are specified in
      the pattern.
Because it ends up with a single path through the tree, it
      is relatively straightforward for this algorithm to keep
      track of the substrings that are matched by portions of the
      pattern in parentheses. This provides support for capturing
      parentheses and back references.

 
THE ALTERNATIVE MATCHING ALGORITHM
This algorithm conducts a breadth-first search of the
      tree. Starting from the first matching point in the subject,
      it scans the subject string from left to right, once,
      character by character, and as it does this, it remembers all
      the paths through the tree that represent valid matches. In
      Friedl's terminology, this is a kind of "DFA algorithm",
      though it is not implemented as a traditional finite state
      machine (it keeps multiple states active simultaneously).
Although the general principle of this matching algorithm
      is that it scans the subject string only once, without
      backtracking, there is one exception: when a lookaround
      assertion is encountered, the characters following or
      preceding the current point have to be independently
      inspected.
The scan continues until either the end of the subject is
      reached, or there are no more unterminated paths. At this
      point, terminated paths represent the different matching
      possibilities (if there are none, the match has failed).
      Thus, if there is more than one possible match, this
      algorithm finds all of them, and in particular, it finds the
      longest. The matches are returned in decreasing order of
      length. There is an option to stop the algorithm after the
      first match (which is necessarily the shortest) is found.
Note that all the matches that are found start at the same
      point in the subject. If the pattern

cat(er(pillar)?)?

is matched against the string "the caterpillar catchment",
      the result will be the three strings "caterpillar", "cater",
      and "cat" that start at the fifth character of the subject.
      The algorithm does not automatically move on to find matches
      that start at later positions.
There are a number of features of PCRE regular expressions
      that are not supported by the alternative matching algorithm.
      They are as follows:
1. Because the algorithm finds all possible matches, the
      greedy or ungreedy nature of repetition quantifiers is not
      relevant. Greedy and ungreedy quantifiers are treated in
      exactly the same way. However, possessive quantifiers can
      make a difference when what follows could also match what is
      quantified, for example in a pattern like this:

^a++\w!

This pattern matches "aaab!" but not "aaa!", which would
      be matched by a non-possessive quantifier. Similarly, if an
      atomic group is present, it is matched as if it were a
      standalone pattern at the current point, and the longest
      match is then "locked in" for the rest of the overall
      pattern.
2. When dealing with multiple paths through the tree
      simultaneously, it is not straightforward to keep track of
      captured substrings for the different matching possibilities,
      and PCRE's implementation of this algorithm does not attempt
      to do this. This means that no captured substrings are
      available.
3. Because no substrings are captured, back references
      within the pattern are not supported, and cause errors if
      encountered.
4. For the same reason, conditional expressions that use a
      backreference as the condition or test for a specific group
      recursion are not supported.
5. Because many paths through the tree may be active, the
      \K escape sequence, which resets the start of the match when
      encountered (but may be on some paths and not on others), is
      not supported. It causes an error if encountered.
6. Callouts are supported, but the value of the
      capture_top field is always 1,
      and the value of the capture_last field is always -1.
7. The \C escape sequence, which (in the standard
      algorithm) matches a single byte, even in UTF-8 mode, is not
      supported because the alternative algorithm moves through the
      subject string one character at a time, for all active paths
      through the tree.
8. Except for (*FAIL), the backtracking control verbs such
      as (*PRUNE) are not supported. (*FAIL) is supported, and
      behaves like a failing negative assertion.

 
ADVANTAGES OF THE ALTERNATIVE ALGORITHM
Using the alternative matching algorithm provides the
      following advantages:
1. All possible matches (at a single point in the subject)
      are automatically found, and in particular, the longest match
      is found. To find more than one match using the standard
      algorithm, you have to do kludgy things with callouts.
2. Because the alternative algorithm scans the subject
      string just once, and never needs to backtrack, it is
      possible to pass very long subject strings to the matching
      function in several pieces, checking for partial matching
      each time. Although it is possible to do multi-segment
      matching using the standard algorithm (pcre_exec()), by retaining partially
      matched substrings, it is more complicated. The pcrepartial(3)
      documentation gives details of partial matching and discusses
      multi-segment matching.

 
DISADVANTAGES OF THE ALTERNATIVE ALGORITHM
The alternative algorithm suffers from a number of
      disadvantages:
1. It is substantially slower than the standard algorithm.
      This is partly because it has to search for all possible
      matches, but is also because it is less susceptible to
      optimization.
2. Capturing parentheses and back references are not
      supported.
3. Although atomic groups are supported, their use does
      not provide the performance advantage that it does for the
      standard algorithm.

 
AUTHOR

Philip Hazel
University Computing Service
Cambridge CB2 3QH, England.

 
REVISION

Last updated: 17 November 2010
Copyright (c) 1997-2010 University of Cambridge.

COPYRIGHT

This manual page is taken from the PCRE library, which is distributed under
                the BSD license.

