

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
PCRE — Perl-compatible regular expressions

 
PCRE SAMPLE PROGRAM
A simple, complete demonstration program, to get you
      started with using PCRE, is supplied in the file pcredemo.c in the PCRE distribution. A
      listing of this program is given in the pcredemo(3) documentation. If
      you do not have a copy of the PCRE distribution, you can save
      this listing to re-create pcredemo.c.
The program compiles the regular expression that is its
      first argument, and matches it against the subject string in
      its second argument. No PCRE options are set, and default
      character tables are used. If matching succeeds, the program
      outputs the portion of the subject that matched, together
      with the contents of any captured substrings.
If the -g option is given on the command line, the program
      then goes on to check for further matches of the same regular
      expression in the same subject string. The logic is a little
      bit tricky because of the possibility of matching an empty
      string. Comments in the code explain what is going on.
If PCRE is installed in the standard include and library
      directories for your operating system, you should be able to
      compile the demonstration program using this command:

gcc -o pcredemo pcredemo.c -lpcre

If PCRE is installed elsewhere, you may need to add
      additional options to the command line. For example, on a
      Unix-like system that has PCRE installed in /usr/local, you can compile the
      demonstration program using a command like this:

 gcc -o pcredemo -I/usr/local/include pcredemo.c \
     -L/usr/local/lib -lpcre

In a Windows environment, if you want to statically link
      the program against a non-dll pcre.a file, you must
      uncomment the line that defines PCRE_STATIC before including
      pcre.h, because otherwise the
      pcre_malloc() and pcre_free() exported functions will be
      declared __declspec(dllimport), with
      unwanted results.
Once you have compiled and linked the demonstration
      program, you can run simple tests like this:

 ./pcredemo 'cat|dog' 'the cat sat on the mat'
 ./pcredemo -g 'cat|dog' 'the dog sat on the cat'

Note that there is a much more comprehensive test program,
      called pcretest, which supports
      many more facilities for testing regular expressions and the
      PCRE library. The pcredemo(3) program is provided
      as a simple coding example.
If you try to run pcredemo(3) when PCRE is not
      installed in the standard library directory, you may get an
      error like this on some operating systems (e.g. Solaris):

ld.so.1: a.out: fatal: libpcre.so.0: open failed: No such file or directory

This is caused by the way shared library support works on
      those systems. You need to add

-R/usr/local/lib

(for example) to the compile command to get round this
      problem.

 
AUTHOR

Philip Hazel
University Computing Service
Cambridge CB2 3QH, England.

 
REVISION

Last updated: 17 November 2010
Copyright (c) 1997-2010 University of Cambridge.

COPYRIGHT

This manual page is taken from the PCRE library, which is distributed under
                the BSD license.

