

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
pthread_self — obtain ID of the calling thread

Synopsis

#include <pthread.h>

pthread_t
            pthread_self(
void);
 

           
        

Note

Compile and link with −pthread.

 
DESCRIPTION
The pthread_self() function
      returns the ID of the calling thread. This is the same value
      that is returned in *thread in
      the pthread_create(3) call that
      created this thread.

 
RETURN VALUE
This function always succeeds, returning the calling
      thread's ID.

 
ERRORS
This function always succeeds.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
POSIX.1 allows an implementation wide freedom in choosing
      the type used to represent a thread ID; for example,
      representation using either an arithmetic type or a structure
      is permitted. Therefore, variables of type pthread_t can't portably be compared using the
      C equality operator (==); use pthread_equal(3)
      instead.
Thread identifiers should be considered opaque: any
      attempt to use a thread ID other than in pthreads calls is
      nonportable and can lead to unspecified results.
Thread IDs are only guaranteed to be unique within a
      process. A thread ID may be reused after a terminated thread
      has been joined, or a detached thread has terminated.
The thread ID returned by pthread_self() is not the same thing as the
      kernel thread ID returned by a call to gettid(2).

 
SEE ALSO
pthread_create(3),
      pthread_equal(3), pthreads(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 2008 Linux Foundation, written by Michael Kerrisk

                      <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

