

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
pthread_yield — yield the processor

Synopsis

#include <pthread.h>

int
            pthread_yield(
void);
 

           
        

Note

Compile and link with −pthread.

 
DESCRIPTION
pthread_yield() causes the
      calling thread to relinquish the CPU. The thread is placed at
      the end of the run queue for its static priority and another
      thread is scheduled to run. For further details, see
      sched_yield(2)

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, pthread_yield()
      returns 0; on error, it returns an error number.

 
ERRORS
On Linux, this call always succeeds (but portable and
      future-proof applications should nevertheless handle a
      possible error return).

 
CONFORMING TO
This call is nonstandard, but present on several other
      systems. Use the standardized sched_yield(2) instead.

 
NOTES
On Linux, this function is implemented as a call to
      sched_yield(2).

 
SEE ALSO
sched_setscheduler(2),
      sched_yield(2) pthreads(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 2009 Michael Kerrisk, <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

