

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
putenv — change or add an environment variable

Synopsis

#include <stdlib.h>

int
            putenv(
char *string);

           
        

Note

Feature Test Macro Requirements
                      for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

putenv():

_SVID_SOURCE ||
                      _XOPEN_SOURCE

 
DESCRIPTION
The putenv() function adds
      or changes the value of environment variables. The argument
      string is of the form
      name=value. If name does not already exist
      in the environment, then string is added to the
      environment. If name does exist, then the
      value of name in
      the environment is changed to value. The string pointed to
      by string becomes
      part of the environment, so altering the string changes the
      environment.

 
RETURN VALUE
The putenv() function
      returns zero on success, or nonzero if an error occurs.

 
ERRORS

ENOMEM

Insufficient space to allocate new environment.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001, 4.3BSD.

 
NOTES
The putenv() function is not
      required to be reentrant, and the one in libc4, libc5 and
      glibc 2.0 is not, but the glibc 2.1 version is.
Description for libc4, libc5, glibc: If the argument
      string is of the form
      name, and does not
      contain an '=' character, then the variable name is removed from the
      environment. If putenv() has to
      allocate a new array environ,
      and the previous array was also allocated by putenv(), then it will be freed. In no case
      will the old storage associated to the environment variable
      itself be freed.
The libc4 and libc5 and glibc 2.1.2 versions conform to
      SUSv2: the pointer string given to putenv() is used. In particular, this
      string becomes part of the environment; changing it later
      will change the environment. (Thus, it is an error is to call
      putenv() with an automatic
      variable as the argument, then return from the calling
      function while string
      is still part of the environment.) However, glibc 2.0-2.1.1
      differs: a copy of the string is used. On the one hand this
      causes a memory leak, and on the other hand it violates
      SUSv2. This has been fixed in glibc 2.1.2.
The 4.4BSD version, like glibc 2.0, uses a copy.
SUSv2 removes the const from
      the prototype, and so does glibc 2.1.3.

 
SEE ALSO
clearenv(3), getenv(3), setenv(3), unsetenv(3), environ(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Single UNIX Specification, Version 2

                  Modified Thu Apr  8 15:00:12 1993, David Metcalfe

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 18:44:45 1993, Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Modified Mon Oct 11 11:11:11 1999 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Modified Wed Nov 10 00:02:26 1999 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Modified Sun May 20 22:17:20 2001 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

