

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
raise — send a signal to the caller

Synopsis

#include <signal.h>

int
            raise(
int sig);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The raise() function sends a
      signal to the calling process or thread. In a single-threaded
      program it is equivalent to

kill(getpid(), sig);

In a multithreaded program it is equivalent to

pthread_kill(pthread_self(), sig);

If the signal causes a handler to be called, raise() will only return after the signal
      handler has returned.

 
RETURN VALUE
raise() returns 0 on
      success, and nonzero for failure.

 
CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.

 
SEE ALSO
getpid(2), kill(2), sigaction(2), signal(2), pthread_kill(3), signal(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25document.write('@');(@)rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)

                  and Copyright (C) 2008 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  License.
                  Modified Sat Jul 24 18:40:56 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby (mibdocument.write('@');(@)deakin.edu.au)

