

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
remove — remove a file or directory

Synopsis

#include <stdio.h>

int
            remove(
const char *pathname);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
remove() deletes a name from
      the file system. It calls unlink(2) for files, and
      rmdir(2) for
      directories.
If the removed name was the last link to a file and no
      processes have the file open, the file is deleted and the
      space it was using is made available for reuse.
If the name was the last link to a file, but any processes
      still have the file open, the file will remain in existence
      until the last file descriptor referring to it is closed.
If the name referred to a symbolic link, the link is
      removed.
If the name referred to a socket, FIFO, or device, the
      name is removed, but processes which have the object open may
      continue to use it.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, zero is returned. On error, −1 is
      returned, and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS
The errors that occur are those for unlink(2) and rmdir(2).

 
CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
Under libc4 and libc5, remove() was an alias for unlink(2) (and hence would
      not remove directories).

 
BUGS
Infelicities in the protocol underlying NFS can cause the
      unexpected disappearance of files which are still being
      used.

 
SEE ALSO
rm(1), unlink(1), link(2), mknod(2), open(2), rename(2), rmdir(2), unlink(2), mkfifo(3), symlink(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    This file is derived from unlink.2, which has the following copyright:

                  --snip--
                  This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;

                                                1993 Ian Jackson.

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  --snip--

                  Edited into remove.3 shape by:

                  Graeme W. Wilford (G.Wilforddocument.write('@');(@)ee.surrey.ac.uk) on 13th July 1994

