

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
sem_init — initialize an unnamed semaphore

Synopsis

#include <semaphore.h>

int
            sem_init(
sem_t *sem,

 
int pshared,

 
unsigned int value);

           
        

Note

Link with −lrt
              or −pthread.

 
DESCRIPTION
sem_init() initializes the
      unnamed semaphore at the address pointed to by sem. The value argument specifies the
      initial value for the semaphore.
The pshared
      argument indicates whether this semaphore is to be shared
      between the threads of a process, or between processes.
If pshared has the
      value 0, then the semaphore is shared between the threads of
      a process, and should be located at some address that is
      visible to all threads (e.g., a global variable, or a
      variable allocated dynamically on the heap).
If pshared is
      nonzero, then the semaphore is shared between processes, and
      should be located in a region of shared memory (see shm_open(3), mmap(2), and shmget(2)). (Since a child
      created by fork(2) inherits its
      parent's memory mappings, it can also access the semaphore.)
      Any process that can access the shared memory region can
      operate on the semaphore using sem_post(3), sem_wait(3), etc.
Initializing a semaphore that has already been initialized
      results in undefined behavior.

 
RETURN VALUE
sem_init() returns 0 on
      success; on error, −1 is returned, and errno is set to indicate the error.

 
ERRORS

EINVAL

value
            exceeds SEM_VALUE_MAX.

ENOSYS

pshared is
            nonzero, but the system does not support process-shared
            semaphores (see sem_overview(7)).

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
Bizarrely, POSIX.1-2001 does not specify the value that
      should be returned by a successful call to sem_init(). POSIX.1-2008 rectifies this,
      specifying the zero return on success.

 
SEE ALSO
sem_destroy(3), sem_post(3), sem_wait(3), sem_overview(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    t

                  Copyright (C) 2006 Michael Kerrisk <mtk.manpagesdocument.write('@');(@)gmail.com>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

