

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
setlocale — set the current locale

Synopsis

#include <locale.h>

char
            *setlocale(
int category,

 
const char *locale);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The setlocale() function is
      used to set or query the program's current locale.
If locale is not
      NULL, the program's current locale is modified according to
      the arguments. The argument category determines which parts
      of the program's current locale should be modified.

LC_ALL

for all of the locale.

LC_COLLATE

for regular expression matching (it determines the
            meaning of range expressions and equivalence classes)
            and string collation.

LC_CTYPE

for regular expression matching, character
            classification, conversion, case-sensitive comparison,
            and wide character functions.

LC_MESSAGES

for localizable natural-language messages.

LC_MONETARY

for monetary formatting.

LC_NUMERIC

for number formatting (such as the decimal point and
            the thousands separator).

LC_TIME

for time and date formatting.

The argument locale is a pointer to a
      character string containing the required setting of
      category. Such a
      string is either a well-known constant like "C" or "da_DK"
      (see below), or an opaque string that was returned by another
      call of setlocale().
If locale is
      "" each part of the locale that
      should be modified is set according to the environment
      variables. The details are implementation-dependent. For
      glibc, first (regardless of category), the environment
      variable LC_ALL is inspected,
      next the environment variable with the same name as the
      category (LC_COLLATE,
      LC_CTYPE, LC_MESSAGES, LC_MONETARY, LC_NUMERIC, LC_TIME) and finally the environment
      variable LANG. The first
      existing environment variable is used. If its value is not a
      valid locale specification, the locale is unchanged, and
      setlocale() returns NULL.
The locale “C” or “POSIX”
      is a portable locale; its LC_CTYPE part corresponds to the 7-bit
      ASCII character set.
A locale name is typically of the form language[_territory][.codeset][@modifier], where language is an ISO 639
      language code, territory is an ISO 3166
      country code, and codeset is a character set or
      encoding identifier like ISO-8859-1 or UTF-8. For a list of all
      supported locales, try "locale −a", cf. locale(1).
If locale is NULL,
      the current locale is only queried, not modified.
On startup of the main program, the portable “C”
      locale is selected as default. A program may be made portable
      to all locales by calling:

    setlocale(LC_ALL, "");

after program initialization, by using the values returned
      from a localeconv(3) call for
      locale-dependent information, by using the multibyte and wide
      character functions for text processing if MB_CUR_MAX > 1, and by using
      strcoll(3), wcscoll(3) or strxfrm(3), wcsxfrm(3) to compare
      strings.

 
RETURN VALUE
A successful call to setlocale() returns an opaque string that
      corresponds to the locale set. This string may be allocated
      in static storage. The string returned is such that a
      subsequent call with that string and its associated category
      will restore that part of the process's locale. The return
      value is NULL if the request cannot be honored.

 
CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
Linux (that is, glibc) supports the portable locales
      “C”“POSIX”
      In the good old days there used to be support for the
      European Latin-1 "ISO-8859-1" locale (e.g., in
      libc-4.5.21 and libc-4.6.27), and the Russian "KOI-8" (more precisely,
      "koi-8r") locale (e.g., in libc-4.6.27), so that having an
      environment variable LC_CTYPE=ISO-8859-1 sufficed
      to make isprint(3) return the right
      answer. These days non-English speaking Europeans have to
      work a bit harder, and must install actual locale files.

 
SEE ALSO
locale(1), localedef(1), isalpha(3), localeconv(3), nl_langinfo(3), rpmatch(3), strcoll(3), strftime(3), charsets(7), locale(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25document.write('@');(@)rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)

                  and Copyright 1999 by Bruno Haible (haibledocument.write('@');(@)clisp.cons.org)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  License.
                  Modified Sat Jul 24 18:20:12 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified Tue Jul 15 16:49:10 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Modified Sun Jul  4 14:52:16 1999 by Bruno Haible (haibledocument.write('@');(@)clisp.cons.org)

                  Modified Tue Aug 24 17:11:01 1999 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Modified Tue Feb  6 03:31:55 2001 by Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

