

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
setlogmask — set log priority mask

Synopsis

#include <syslog.h>

int
            setlogmask(
int mask);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
A process has a log priority mask that determines which
      calls to syslog(3) may be logged.
      All other calls will be ignored. Logging is enabled for the
      priorities that have the corresponding bit set in mask. The initial mask is such
      that logging is enabled for all priorities.
The setlogmask() function
      sets this logmask for the calling process, and returns the
      previous mask. If the mask argument is 0, the current logmask
      is not modified.
The eight priorities are LOG_EMERG, LOG_ALERT, LOG_CRIT, LOG_ERR, LOG_WARNING, LOG_NOTICE, LOG_INFO, and LOG_DEBUG. The bit corresponding to a
      priority p is LOG_MASK(p).
      Some systems also provide a macro LOG_UPTO(p)
      for the mask of all priorities in the above list up to and
      including p.

 
RETURN VALUE
This function returns the previous log priority mask.

 
ERRORS
None.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001. Note that the description in POSIX.1-2001 is
      flawed.

 
SEE ALSO
closelog(3), openlog(3), syslog(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl>.

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

