

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
sleep — Sleep for the specified number of
      seconds

Synopsis

#include <unistd.h>

unsigned int
            sleep(
unsigned int seconds);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
sleep() makes the calling
      thread sleep until seconds seconds have elapsed or
      a signal arrives which is not ignored.

 
RETURN VALUE
Zero if the requested time has elapsed, or the number of
      seconds left to sleep, if the call was interrupted by a
      signal handler.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

 
BUGS
sleep() may be implemented
      using SIGALRM; mixing calls to
      alarm(2) and sleep() is a bad idea.
Using longjmp(3) from a signal
      handler or modifying the handling of SIGALRM while sleeping will cause undefined
      results.

 
SEE ALSO
alarm(2), nanosleep(2), signal(2), signal(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25document.write('@');(@)rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  License.
                  Modified Sat Jul 24 18:16:02 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

