

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
strcasecmp, strncasecmp — compare two strings
      ignoring case

Synopsis

#include <strings.h>

int
            strcasecmp(
const char *s1,

 
const char *s2);

           
        

int
            strncasecmp(
const char *s1,

 
const char *s2,

 
size_t n);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The strcasecmp() function
      compares the two strings s1 and s2, ignoring the case of the
      characters. It returns an integer less than, equal to, or
      greater than zero if s1 is found, respectively, to
      be less than, to match, or be greater than s2.
The strncasecmp() function
      is similar, except it only compares the first n characters of s1.

 
RETURN VALUE
The strcasecmp() and
      strncasecmp() functions return
      an integer less than, equal to, or greater than zero if
      s1 (or the first
      n bytes thereof) is
      found, respectively, to be less than, to match, or be greater
      than s2.

 
CONFORMING TO
4.4BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

 
SEE ALSO
bcmp(3), memcmp(3), strcmp(3), strcoll(3), string(3), strncmp(3), wcscasecmp(3), wcsncasecmp(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 18:12:45 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

