

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
strcoll — compare two strings using the current
      locale

Synopsis

#include <string.h>

int
            strcoll(
const char *s1,

 
const char *s2);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The strcoll() function
      compares the two strings s1 and s2. It returns an integer less
      than, equal to, or greater than zero if s1 is found, respectively, to
      be less than, to match, or be greater than s2. The comparison is based on
      strings interpreted as appropriate for the program's current
      locale for category LC_COLLATE.
      (See setlocale(3).)

 
RETURN VALUE
The strcoll() function
      returns an integer less than, equal to, or greater than zero
      if s1 is found,
      respectively, to be less than, to match, or be greater than
      s2, when both are
      interpreted as appropriate for the current locale.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.

 
NOTES
In the “POSIX” or “C”
      locales strcoll() is equivalent
      to strcmp(3).

 
SEE ALSO
bcmp(3), memcmp(3), setlocale(3), strcasecmp(3), strcmp(3), string(3), strxfrm(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sun Jul 25 10:40:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

