

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
strspn, strcspn — search a string for a set of
      characters

Synopsis

#include <string.h>

size_t
            strspn(
const char *s,

 
const char *accept);

           
        

size_t
            strcspn(
const char *s,

 
const char *reject);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The strspn() function
      calculates the length of the initial segment of s which consists entirely of
      characters in accept.
The strcspn() function
      calculates the length of the initial segment of s which consists entirely of
      characters not in reject.

 
RETURN VALUE
The strspn() function
      returns the number of characters in the initial segment of
      s which consist only
      of characters from accept.
The strcspn() function
      returns the number of characters in the initial segment of
      s which are not in
      the string reject.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.

 
SEE ALSO
index(3), memchr(3), rindex(3), strchr(3), string(3), strpbrk(3), strsep(3), strstr(3), strtok(3), wcscspn(3), wcsspn(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 17:57:50 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

