

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
strverscmp — compare two version strings

Synopsis

#define _GNU_SOURCE          /* See feature_test_macros(7) */
#include <string.h>

int
            strverscmp(
const char *s1,

 
const char *s2);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
Often one has files jan1,
      jan2, ..., jan9, jan10,
      ... and it feels wrong when ls(1) orders them
      jan1, jan10, ..., jan2, ..., jan9. In order to rectify this, GNU
      introduced the −v option to
      ls(1), which is implemented
      using versionsort(3), which again
      uses strverscmp().
Thus, the task of strverscmp() is to compare two strings and
      find the "right" order, while strcmp(3) only finds the
      lexicographic order. This function does not use the locale
      category LC_COLLATE, so is
      meant mostly for situations where the strings are expected to
      be in ASCII.
What this function does is the following. If both strings
      are equal, return 0. Otherwise find the position between two
      bytes with the property that before it both strings are
      equal, while directly after it there is a difference. Find
      the largest consecutive digit strings containing (or starting
      at, or ending at) this position. If one or both of these is
      empty, then return what strcmp(3) would have
      returned (numerical ordering of byte values). Otherwise,
      compare both digit strings numerically, where digit strings
      with one or more leading zeros are interpreted as if they
      have a decimal point in front (so that in particular digit
      strings with more leading zeros come before digit strings
      with fewer leading zeros). Thus, the ordering is 000, 00,
      01, 010, 09,
      0, 1, 9,
      10.

 
RETURN VALUE
The strverscmp() function
      returns an integer less than, equal to, or greater than zero
      if s1 is found,
      respectively, to be earlier than, equal to, or later than
      s2.

 
CONFORMING TO
This function is a GNU extension.

 
SEE ALSO
rename(1), strcasecmp(3), strcmp(3), strcoll(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

