

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
strxfrm — string transformation

Synopsis

#include <string.h>

size_t
            strxfrm(
char *dest,

 
const char *src,

 
size_t n);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The strxfrm() function
      transforms the src
      string into a form such that the result of strcmp(3) on two strings
      that have been transformed with strxfrm() is the same as the result of
      strcoll(3) on the two
      strings before their transformation. The first n characters of the transformed
      string are placed in dest. The transformation is
      based on the program's current locale for category
      LC_COLLATE. (See setlocale(3)).

 
RETURN VALUE
The strxfrm() function
      returns the number of bytes required to store the transformed
      string in dest
      excluding the terminating null byte ('\0'). If the value
      returned is n or
      more, the contents of dest are indeterminate.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99.

 
NOTES
In the “POSIX” or “C”
      locales strxfrm() is equivalent
      to copying the string with strncpy(3).

 
SEE ALSO
bcmp(3), memcmp(3), setlocale(3), strcasecmp(3), strcmp(3), strcoll(3), string(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.35 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:28 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

