

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
tcgetsid — get session ID

Synopsis

#define _XOPEN_SOURCE 500         /* See feature_test_macros(7) */
#include <termios.h>

pid_t
            tcgetsid(
int fd);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The function tcgetsid()
      returns the session ID of the current session that has the
      terminal associated to fd as controlling terminal.
      This terminal must be the controlling terminal of the calling
      process.

 
RETURN VALUE
When fd refers to
      the controlling terminal of our session, the function
      tcgetsid() will return the
      session ID of this session. Otherwise, −1 is returned,
      and errno is set
      appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EBADF

fd is not a
            valid file descriptor.

ENOTTY

The calling process does not have a controlling
            terminal, or it has one but it is not described by
            fd.

 
VERSIONS
tcgetsid() is provided in
      glibc since version 2.1.

 
CONFORMING TO
POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
This function is implemented via the TIOCGSID ioctl(2), present since
      Linux 2.1.71.

 
SEE ALSO
getsid(2)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer <aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl>

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

