

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
tmpfile — create a temporary file

Synopsis

#include <stdio.h>

FILE
            *tmpfile(
void);
 

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
The tmpfile() function opens
      a unique temporary file in binary read/write (w+b) mode. The
      file will be automatically deleted when it is closed or the
      program terminates.

 
RETURN VALUE
The tmpfile() function
      returns a stream descriptor, or NULL if a unique filename
      cannot be generated or the unique file cannot be opened. In
      the latter case, errno is set to
      indicate the error.

 
ERRORS

EACCES

Search permission denied for directory in file's
            path prefix.

EEXIST

Unable to generate a unique filename.

EINTR

The call was interrupted by a signal.

EMFILE

Too many file descriptors in use by the process.

ENFILE

Too many files open in the system.

ENOSPC

There was no room in the directory to add the new
            filename.

EROFS

Read-only file system.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.3BSD, C89, C99, SUSv2, POSIX.1-2001.

 
NOTES
POSIX.1-2001 specifies: an error message may be written to
      stdout if the stream cannot be
      opened.
The standard does not specify the directory that
      tmpfile() will use. Glibc will
      try the path prefix P_tmpdir
      defined in <stdio.h>
      and if that fails the directory /tmp.

 
SEE ALSO
exit(3), mkstemp(3), mktemp(3), tempnam(3), tmpnam(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (daviddocument.write('@');(@)prism.demon.co.uk)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  References consulted:
                      Linux libc source code

                      Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)

                      386BSD man pages

                  Modified Sat Jul 24 17:46:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 2001-11-17, aeb

