

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
toupper, tolower — convert letter to upper or lower
      case

Synopsis

#include <ctype.h>

int
            toupper(
int c);

           
        

int
            tolower(
int c);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION
toupper() converts the
      letter c to upper
      case, if possible.
tolower() converts the
      letter c to lower
      case, if possible.
If c is not an
      unsigned char value, or
      EOF, the behavior of these
      functions is undefined.

 
RETURN VALUE
The value returned is that of the converted letter, or
      c if the conversion
      was not possible.

 
CONFORMING TO
C89, C99, 4.3BSD.

 
BUGS
The details of what constitutes an uppercase or lowercase
      letter depend on the current locale. For example, the default
      “C” locale does not know about
      umlauts, so no conversion is done for them.
In some non-English locales, there are lowercase letters
      with no corresponding uppercase equivalent; the German sharp
      s is one example.

 
SEE ALSO
isalpha(3), setlocale(3), towlower(3), towupper(3), locale(7)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                    Copyright (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25document.write('@');(@)rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  License.
                  Modified Sat Jul 24 17:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faithdocument.write('@');(@)cs.unc.edu)

                  Modified 2000-02-13 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nickdocument.write('@');(@)debian.org>

