

Linux
          manual pages
Section 3
 

 
 

Name
ulimit — get and set user limits

Synopsis

#include <ulimit.h>

long
            ulimit(
int cmd,

 
long newlimit);

           
        

 
DESCRIPTION

Warning

This routine is obsolete. Use getrlimit(2),
              setrlimit(2), and
              sysconf(3) instead.
              For the shell command ulimit(), see bash(1).

The ulimit() call will get
      or set some limit for the calling process. The cmd argument can have one of
      the following values.

UL_GETFSIZE

Return the limit on the size of a file, in units of
            512 bytes.

UL_SETFSIZE

Set the limit on the size of a file.

3

(Not implemented for Linux.) Return the maximum
            possible address of the data segment.

4

(Implemented but no symbolic constant provided.)
            Return the maximum number of files that the calling
            process can open.

 
RETURN VALUE
On success, ulimit() returns
      a nonnegative value. On error, −1 is returned, and
      errno is set appropriately.

 
ERRORS

EPERM

A unprivileged process tried to increase a
            limit.

 
CONFORMING TO
SVr4, POSIX.1-2001. POSIX.1-2008 marks ulimit() as obsolete.

 
SEE ALSO
bash(1), getrlimit(2), setrlimit(2), sysconf(3)

 
COLOPHON
This page is part of release 3.33 of the Linux man-pages project. A
      description of the project, and information about reporting
      bugs, can be found at http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/.

                  Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aebdocument.write('@');(@)cwi.nl)

                  Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this

                  manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are

                  preserved on all copies.

                  Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this

                  manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the

                  entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a

                  permission notice identical to this one.

                  Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this

                  manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no

                  responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from

                  the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not

                  have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,

                  which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working

                  professionally.

                  Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by

                  the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.

                  Moved to man3, aeb, 980612

